 BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE REINSTATED Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, has resumed office. Ogundipe, who resumed on Thursday amid a rousing welcome, thanked staff and students for their support, while promising to continue the good work that would make the institution continue to stand out. He addressed the workers from the foyer of the Senate Building of the school. The VC thanked President Muhammadu Buhari specifically for making sure due process was followed in the administration of the University, noting that his return to office was by divine intervention, not by power. He also commended Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu; Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission, Abubakar Rasheed; and Acting Vice-Chancellor, Folasade Ogunsola, among others, for their roles in ending the institution’s crisis. According to him, his stay away from office for about three months was some kind of sabbatical. While urging everyone to work together for the good of the institution, he debunked the rumour that some people would be victimised for not supporting him. The Point had reported that the President approved the reinstatement of the suspended Vice Chancellor on Wednesday. This was contained in a statement by the Ministry of Education’s Director Press and Public Relations, Ben-Bem Goong. The statement, titled, ‘Re: Report of special visitation panel to UNILAG’, said, “President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and Visitor to the University of Lagos has approved the Report of the Special Visitation Panel to the University of Lagos. “The highlights of the findings and recommendations approved by Mr. President are as follows – the removal of Professor Oluwatoyin T. Ogundipe as the Vice Chancellor did not follow due process.” The Federal Government said the Vice Chancellor was not granted an opportunity to defend himself on the allegations upon which his removal was based, adding that “he should accordingly be re-instated.” “All allegations made against the Vice Chancellor and the management of the University before and after the Constitution of the Special Visitation Panel should be referred to regular Visitation Panel for thorough investigation and necessary recommendations,” the statement added. “The process adopted by the Council in the appointment of Professor Omololu Soyombo as Acting Vice-Chancellor of the University was inconsistent with the provisions of the Law relating to the appointment of an Acting Vice-Chancellor. The Governing Council should be dissolved,” it said. 