 BY BANYO TEMITAYO ACCESS Bank has received the highest level of sustainability certificaton under the Sustainability Standards and Certification Initiative (SSCI). The bank received the certification during the World Development Finance Forum in Karlsruhe, Germany. With this certification, Access Bank has become the first-ever commercial bank in Africa to be sustainability certified. According to a statement on Thursday, the certification only features financial institutions from around the world who are pre-qualified for the SSCI certification program and who have demonstrated a strong commitment to sustainability. On the recognition, Group Managing Director, Access Bank, Herbert Wigwe, said, “Over the years, we have mainstreamed sustainability into our business activities and operations, thereby supporting innovative and equitable green economies across Africa. “We are delighted to have our Sustainability performance audited and certified by a prestigious international organisation like the European Organisation for Sustainable Development, within its SSCI program. The certification is a testament of our sustainability performance and commitment.” Head, Sustainablity, Access Bank, Omobolanle Victor-Laniyan, was also quoted to have assured thay the bank would continue to strengthen its commitment towards supporting vibrant communities and influencing positive market transformation in its areas of operation. She said, “The bank’s investment in community development remains focused on addressing pressing societal issues and unlocking new market opportunities for our customers and communities, thereby, ensuring the economic viability of the nation. “Furthermore, we will continue to propel the world towards a more sustainable path, whilst ensuring that no one is left behind in alignment with the UN Sustainable Development Goals and other global sustainability standards.” Access Bank was also appointed a member of the International Council for SSCI. The council helps to ensure that the work and strategies of certified institutions align with global Sustainable Development Goals and national development agendas. 