 AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI THE major stakeholders of Ivo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State have dissociated themselves from the activities of Senator Pius Anyim for allegedly fronting for the Peoples Democratic Party against their wish. The stakeholders made this known in a communiqué  issued in Abakaliki during a press conference. They include National Assembly members, State House of Assembly members, State Executive Council members, members of Federal and State Boards and Commissions; Council Chairmen and Vice Chairmen, leaders of Ivo Legislative Council, Coordinators of Development Centres, Chieftains of the All Progressives Congress from Ivo LGA, traditional rulers and Town Union Presidents. The Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Uchenna Orji, who read the communique, said, “We unanimously re-affirm our total support, solidarity and loyalty to our dear Governor,  His Excellency Engr. Chief David Nweze Umahi (Ebube Agu of Ishiagu) on the decision of the government and people of Ebonyi State to belong to All Progressives Congress, APC. “That we, the good people of Ivo Local Government Area, dissociate ourselves from the activities of our son from Ishiagu Community who is fronting for Peoples Democratic Party against the wish of Ivo people and we hereby state that he is on his own and does not have the support of us in Ivo Local Government Area.” They alleged that despite having Senator Pious Anyim as Senate President for about three years and Secretary to the Government of the Federation for four years, no form of infrastructure or human empowerment was attracted to any part of Ivo Local Government Area, much less South East, “except crisis, killing and impoverishing of innocent people.” The communique said, “We, as major stakeholders of Ivo Local Government Area, made up of the present and past National Assembly Members, State House of Assembly Members, State Executive Council members, members of Federal and State Boards and Commissions, Council Chairmen and Vice Chairmen, leaders of Ivo Legislative Council, Coordinators of Development Centres, Chieftains of All Progressives Congress (APC) from Ivo LGA, traditional Rulers and Town Union Presidents, in furtherance of our decision to stand with our wonder working Governor in his declaration to All Progressives Congress APC, do hereby resolve to issue the following communiqué: “That he should not remind us of the woes of underdevelopment, complete alienation from a sitting Governor in times past, and crisis which we suffered in the hands of the ‘Federal Might’ of the PDP-led Federal Government and we urge him to forthwith discontinue fanning the embers of ‘Abuja group’ in the interest of the peace of Ivo Local Government Area and Ebonyi State in general. “That despite having him as Senate President for about three years and Secretary to the Government of the Federation for four years, no form of infrastructure or human empowerment was attracted to any part of Ivo Local Government Area let alone South East, except crisis and killing of innocent people. Our people were impoverished. “Worst among our deprivations are lack of commercial bank, electricity, road, water and complete absence of Federal institutions whatsoever, under his watch, despite the volume of commercial activities and wealth in Ivo Local Government Area. “That the peace and infrastructural development which we now enjoy under the administration of His Excellency, Engr. Chief David Nweze Umahi FNSE, FNATE,.is a product of his love and concern for the good of the people of Ivo Local Government Area. “That we thank the Governor for the construction of Nzerem/Okue/Ishiagu concrete road and the ongoing Okue River bridge, the 20 km street light, the Ivo Water project, construction of world class classroom blocks in each of the wards, construction of Ogovu/Etani concrete road, construction of Etani bridge, construction of Ubegu/Iyioji 5 km road, Akaeze-Uburu Concrete Road, Ultra Modern Park Ogidi Akaeze, General Hospital Ishiagu, numerous empowerment programmes, and appointment of our sons and daughters in strategic public offices among others. ‘That we reassure the Governor of Ebonyi State that we shall continue to be loyal to him, the APC state Government and the APC Federal Government, led by President Muhammadu Buhari.”  