 … alleges threat to life BY REBECCA AJANI QUEEN Anuoluwapo Adeyemi, one of the youngest wives of the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, took to Instagram on Wednesday night to confirm a rumour of her separation from the monarch. The mother of a set of twins, who was once believed to be the Alaafin’s favourite, said she left the palace because she did not want to continue “living in bondage”. She also alleged that as a result of her action, there had been an attempt to kidnap her while her family members were also being harassed to disclose her whereabouts. The young queen called on Nigerians to hold the monarch responsible should anything happen to her and her children, explaining that she had to take the children away from the palace as a good mother. “This is an outcry to protect my life. That I left the palace should not warrant a threat to my life. I can never deny my children the right to their father, however, it is only motherly for me to have them with me,” she wrote. While stressing that she refused to live in bondage, Anuoluwapo vowed to do anything within her human rights to be free. “I just want to live and be the mother of my children,” she noted. Though a source had told The Point that it was an abomination to take the children away from the palace, Anuoluwapo said before judging her, Nigerians should put themselves in her shoes. She said, “It is with great sadness that I am putting out this statement. I deem it necessary to do so as I feel my life is being threatened as a result of me walking out of my marriage. “The purpose of this statement is to let all and sundry know that should anything happen to me and my children, it is as a result of my exit from the palace. And the monarch should be held responsible. “It is not my wish to walk out. I can’t continue to live under bondage. I wish to live, be the best I can for my children.” The estranged queen said she chose not to grant an interview to any media outlet because it was about her private life and therefore decided to leave quietly in order to live for her children, but that it became necessary to speak up because her life was allegedly being threatened. “I was appalled to find out that my family is being harassed because my location is unknown to the king. The attempt to also have me kidnapped failed, and I can no longer keep my silence,” she claimed. Efforts to get the official response of the palace were not successful as of the time of filing this report. 