 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI FOLLOWING the defection of Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State to the ruling All Progressives Congress, about 21 government appointees have been sacked. Since the defection was made public, the state government has also dissolved the boards of state-owned institutions, which has led to voluntary resignations and protests, among others. In the most recent public service announcement in the state, signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Kenneth Ugbala, the state government approved the removal from office of some Coordinators of Development Centers in Ebonyi State for alleged dereliction of duty. They are: Onyekachi Okorie Daniel, Coordinator of Ivo Development Center; and Fabian Ivoke of Echiele Development Center. As expected, the two former officials were directed to hand over all government’s property in their possession to the SSG/Coordinating Commissioner before the close of work on Thursday, 27th November, 2020. In the same vein, the Governor approved the removal from office of the following 19 appointees with immediate effect, also for alleged dereliction of duty. They are: Charles Onu – Senior Technical Assistant; Ikenna Ani Emmanuel – Technical Assistant; Ifeanyi Chukwuma – Technical Assistant; Amaka Chukwu Ede -Technical Assistant: Ani Felix Chinedu -Technical Assistant; Mrs Ngozi Uzor Nwokoro -Technical Assistant; Hon. Emmanuel Ugbana – Technical Assistant; Obinna Ani – Technical Assistant; Moses Nweze – Technical Assistant; and  Ogechi Awo – Technical Assistant. Others are:  Mrs. Igbota Chibuike -Technical Assistant; Mrs. Rufus Obaji – Technical Assistant; Hon. Samuel Opuh -Technical Assistant; Hon. Sampson Okoro – Technical Assistant: Mrs Obinna Odefa – Technical Assistant; Mrs Elizabeth Una – Liaison Officer; Faith Onuoha – Liaison Officer; Nweze Obinna – Member, Management Committee; Chukwuma Okoro – Member, Management Committee. Recall that the Governor had earlier sacked all political appointees of Ohaukwu Local Government Area, including Coordinators of Development Centers, Executive Assistants (EAs), all Senior Technical Assistants (STAs), Technical Assistants (TAs), all Liaison Officers and all Management Committee Members of Development Centres.  