 UMMU ABUBAKAR A media aide of former Senate President Bukola Saraki indicated on Friday that Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara State was planning to abolish a law that had already been revoked by the previous administration in the state. Press Officer, Local Matters to the former Senate President, Abdulganiyu Abdulqadir, specifically said the law awarding pension and other entitlements to former Governors and their deputies had been revoked in the state since 2018. He berated the governor for “copying everything from Lagos, word for word”, saying he should check the records well next time to avoid embarrassment. “It is worrisome how politics is clouding the judgement of the present administration under Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq and making it become desperate to score cheap political points, not minding the embarrassment it is causing the good people of the state,” he said. The Point had reported that AbdulRazaq, on Friday, indicated the state government’s plan to revoke the said law. The governor had announced in a series of tweets that he would be sending a bill to the state House of Assembly to this effect next week. His announcement came on the heels of a similar pronouncement by his counterpart in Lagos, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. “In line with our campaign mantra and the yearnings of our people, next week, I will be sending a bill to the State House of Assembly to revoke the law awarding pension packages to former governors and former deputy governors in Kwara State,” AbdulRazaq tweeted. “Our state needs all the resources it can get to improve our human capital development. I believe our limited resources are better spent on tackling the question of poverty and youth unemployment,” he added. But Saraki’s aide said, “It would be recalled that in February 2018, the Kwara State House of Assembly revised the law and abolished payment of the pension, a move that was publicly hailed by then Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki. “Since the review of the law in 2018, Saraki has stopped receiving any pension from the state government. These are verifiable facts that are in possession of the Kwara State Government. If there is any contrary information to this, we urge the incumbent governor to inform the public. “It is now worrisome and an embarrassment to all Kwarans that a law that has since been repealed in the state is the same law Governor Abdulrahman is claiming that he intends to abolish. Must this administration copy everything from Lagos word for word?”  