 MATT Hancock has confirmed that sex with anyone outside your household is still banned even after the England lockdown lifts. The Health Secretary said those couples living apart in Tier 2 would only be able to see each other outside – but stressed those impacted should read the guidance for their area. Addressing a question from Ella, a member of the public, at the Downing Street press conference, Mr Hancock said, “The rules about exactly what is permitted in each of the tiers is on the Gov.uk website. “I start my answer with that because for everybody watching if you’re in a specific situation, then the best thing to do is to go and look precisely at the rules. “Now of course I understand the impact on people who are in a long-term relationship and we have made specific provision. “But the general rule for those who are in Tier 2 is that the rule of six applies outdoors, including for instance in a private garden, but indoors you should only be mixing with people who are in your own household.” The new guidance all but rules out casual hook-ups for people who live in different households and don’t have a prior relationship. The Prime Minister confirmed that people could still meet up under the so-called ‘Rule of Six’ if their area is still under Tier 1 rules. However, people will still have to wear masks and observe social distancing when they gather in groups both indoors and outdoors making sex a rather tricky proposition. Under Tier 2, all indoor recreation gatherings will be outlawed – although, technically, people will still be able to meet up in their back garden. And Tier 3 restrictions will prevent people from meeting everywhere except in public places such as parks. During the press conference today, Mr Hancock said that “we’ve got this virus back under control”. He said that in England in the last week cases have dropped by 30 per cent. “This is clearly good news. It shows that the national restrictions have been successful,” he said. “And what this means in practice is that through everyone’s actions in respecting the national lockdown, and through everything that people have sacrificed, we’ve reduced pressures on the NHS, we’ve brought down the number of coronavirus cases, we’ve got this virus back under control.” – mirror.co.uk  