 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE THE Inter-Party Advisory Council of Nigeria has declared all actions carried out by those it described as “self-imposed” Interim National Executives of the Council as “illegal, unconstitutional, null and void.” IPAC based his declaration on a judgment of the Court of Appeal on the deregistration of political parties, which said all the affected political parties in the eyes of the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, were never deregistered. The Council made its position known in a Communique issued at the end of a crucial meeting held in Abuja on Saturday. The communique was jointly signed by the acting President, IPAC, Ralphs Nwosu (African DemocraticCongress); acting Vice President, Abdulkadir Abdulsalam (Labour Party); acting Secretary General, Adekunle Rufai OmoAje (Action Alliance); and acting National Treasurer, Chuks Achusi (All Progressives Grand Alliance). The communique alleged that the “self-imposed executives were “mere impersonators wanting to hijack IPAC for nefarious activities.” It said, “Rising from the General Assembly Council Meeting of the Inter Party Advisory Council of Nigeria (IPAC) held in Abuja on the 21st of November, 2020, the Council under the leadership of Chief Ralphs Okey Nwosu resolved as follows: “Consequent upon the unanimous Judgment of the Court of Appeal, all the affected political parties in the eyes of the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, were never deregistered. It therefore follows that all actions carried out by the self-imposed Interim National executives of IPAC remain illegal, unconstitutional, and null and void; these group of persons are mere impersonators wanting to hijack IPAC for nefarious activities. “The judgment affirmed the subsistence of all State Executive members that were duly elected in the elections conducted by the 10th Assembly of the Inter Party Advisory Council of Nigeria, 4th November, 2019 to 25th November, 2019. As a result, all elected members are mandated to remain in office and continue to discharge their official responsibilities without fear or favour and in accordance to IPAC’s code of conduct. “On the issues raised by some states executives of IPAC concerning the purported National election of 12th November, 2020 and scheduled IPAC State elections from November 30th to December 24th, 2020, the position of the council remains to be on path of the law.” The Council appealed to leaders across the states to maintain peace and disregard all such notices, abuses and infringements on the IPAC Code of Conduct by individuals it said were sponsored to subvert the rule of law and undermine the integrity of member parties. It noted, “The council maintains that any appointments or elections conducted by these impostors, led by acting Chairman of AAC, Leonard Nzenwa, remains illegal and unconstitutional and cautions that members who voluntarily choose to indulge them do so at their own risks. “A seven (7) member Committee was set up to review causes of the severe tension rocking most of the parties and the general agitation and protests in the country with Alhaji San Turaki as the chairman and Barr Kehinde Edu as Secretary. Other members are Chief Barr Emeka Igwe, PDC; Barr Mrs Georgina Dakpokpo (YDP); one nominee each from PDP, APC, and SDP. “They will, in addition, investigate the sources and veracity of the rumored plots of some organisations and persons with the dubious agenda to foist one party system in Nigeria. While we may discountenance this conspiracy, the council cautions all party leaders to invest the effort in building their parties and/or developing working coalitions and collaborations that will continue to make their parties viable to thwart the ungodly works of any such conspirators.” The Council also resolved to hold a joint session national executive meeting and the first On-line/virtual conference “of All IPAC states Chairmen and Secretaries and the National Council on Thursday between the hours of 1600 to 1800.”  