 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has urged traditional rulers in the country not to compromise their neutrality in the nation’s affairs, saying this is what significantly confers moral authority and legitimacy on them. The President said this while calling for the support of the monarchs in the government’s efforts at addressing the demands of Nigerian youths and the unpalatable events that trailed the #EndSARS protests across the country. He spoke during a meeting with the National Council of Traditional Rulers of Nigeria, led by the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, at the State House, Abuja. The President said the job of restoring peace and making the youths understand that Government had heard their cries loud and clear would be better done by the monarchs because of their proximity to their people. “To succeed in all this, we would require your support and voice to help amplify the message. Your proximity to the people places you in a unique position to communicate and ensure that our response is targeted and impactful,” Buhari noted. He said their roles as “guardians of our traditional values and culture” was very critical, adding that his Chief of Staff, Ibrahim Gambari, would lead senior government officials to various parts of the country to engage directly with the monarchs as part of the ongoing process of restoration of peace and order. “He (Gambari) will be reporting back to me on your various perspectives,” the President said. “I want to once again thank you for the role you all have played to calm down our youth with wisdom and authority. By instilling hope and keeping the peace, you have rendered the country great service,” he added. President Buhari, however, warned that his administration would not allow anybody or group to threaten the peace or sabotage the ongoing efforts, while assuring that “strong, transparent efforts are underway to address those rogue elements of the Nigerian Police Force.” “Simultaneously, the Nigerian Police Force will also undergo much needed reform that covers welfare, working conditions, and code of conduct. That will usher in a more professional workforce,” he maintained. He also promised to study the recommendations of the traditional rulers with a view to taking appropriate action. 