 ANDREW EKEJIUBA Versatile defender Calvin Bassey has spoken of his happiness at scoring his first professional goal for Glasgow Rangers in their 4-0 rout of Falkirk on Sunday night. On a personal level, his finest moment in a Rangers jersey came on the half-hour mark when he smashed the rebound into the roof of the net after Cedric Itten’s header was saved by goalkeeper Morrison. Signed from Premier League club Leicester City, Bassey was in action for 384 minutes spread across nine matches before opening his account for the Light Blues. “It is a good feeling and I just give thanks for the opportunity to be able to play for this amazing club,” Bassey said to reporters. “I just need to keep my head down and keep on working. There are things I could have done better – I’m obviously happy for my goal but I am just trying to improve as a player every single day”. Predominantly a left-back, Bassey was deployed at center back by manager Steven Gerrard against Falkirk, a role he used to play during his time with the academy team of Leicester City. Meanwhile, English Premier League side West Ham are disappointed by their failure to sign Nigeria-eligible left-back Bassey from Leicester City in the summer transfer window, according to reports. Bassey joined Glasgow Rangers on a four-year deal with the Scottish Premiership giants paying training compensation to his former club Leicester City. Rangers took advantage of cross-border rules to sign Bassey for one tenth of his market value as he was worth in the region of three million pounds but the Light Blues parted with only £300,000. The Hammers were interested in signing the Italian-born Nigerian defender prior to his move to Rangers, but Leicester City turned down their bid with the hope that he would sign a new deal, only for the player to run down his contract. Rangers offered Bassey the chance to play first team football and he has gone on to make nine appearances since his move, including two games in the Europa League and qualifying rounds.  