 UMMU ABUBAKAR THE Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs has alleged that Bishop Godfrey Onah of Nsukka Catholic Diocese instigated the recent attacks on Muslims in the South-East and South-South regions. The NSCIA made the allegation in a petition to the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, and the Department of State Services. It called on the law enforcement agencies to, as a matter of urgency, interrogate the Bishop in connection with the allegations. The Council stressed that the violent attack by those it called Christian bigots, on Muslims in Nsukka, and the burning of their Mosques was as a result of an “inciting sermon of lies, fabricated to provoke hatred for Muslims”, delivered by Bishop Onah. It warned that the recurrence of these kinds of virulent assault on Muslims in the two regions, if left unchecked, could surely ignite reprisals in other parts of the country, especially in the North. The NSCIA noted that despite an appeal to the security agencies on October 23, to offer special protection to Muslims in the two regions in view of the threats they faced, the attacks persisted with greater intensity. The petition to the IGP was signed on behalf of the President General of the NSCIA and Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, by the Council’s Deputy Secretary-General, Prof. Salisu Shehu, The Point reports. It said, “On Saturday, October 31, 2020, some Christian bigots unleashed violent and virulent attack on Muslims in Nsukka and burnt their Mosques as a result of a hateful and inciting sermon, full of lies and fallacies, delivered by one Bishop Reverend Father Godfrey Igwebuike Onah. “In the sermon, it was clear that the Bishop instigated the worshippers against Mosques and Muslims. It would therefore require any disagreement, no matter how minute, to execute the premeditated havoc wreaked on the Muslims in the two zones. “You may recall our letter dated 6 Rabiul-Awwal 1442 AH (23 October, 2020) wherein we implored the Nigeria Police Force to specially protect the lives, property and places of worship for Muslims living in the South-East and South-South. “In the said letter, we informed you about the violent assaults being unleashed on the Muslims in some parts of the zones. Some were killed and their property worth billions of Naira were looted, vandalised or set on fire. Mosques including very ancient ones built by indigenous Igbo Muslims were burnt. “Rather than abating, the persecution and violence against Muslims in the said two zones have persisted with greater intensity.” The NSCIA added, “In view of the above, the Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, on behalf of the entire Muslim Ummah, hereby reiterate our call to you, Sir, to rise up to this challenge and protect the lives and property of Muslims in the South-East and South-South as bonafide citizens of Nigeria who should live peacefully in any part of the country. “Specifically, we also implore you, as a matter of urgency to interrogate, Reverend Father (Bishop) Godfrey Igwebuike Onah of his hate speech, inciting sermon of lies, fabricated to provoke hatred for Muslims.” 