 FOLASHADE KEHINDE THE Presidency said, on Monday, that the 43 rice farmers that were killed in Borno on Saturday did not get military clearance before proceeding to their farms. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, told the British Broadcasting Corporation that most of the deadly spots had been liberated from Boko Haram terrorists but added that there were some areas that had not been cleared for the return of villagers. He said he got information from military leaders that the farmers did not get clearance, noting that, fields where the sad incident happened ought to have passed the test of military clearances before farmers or settlers resumed activities. Though the United Nations said at least 110 civilians were ruthlessly killed and many others were wounded in the attack, the Federal Government has insisted that as of now, only 43 farmers were confirmed killed. When asked if Shehu was blaming the rice farmers for not getting clearance, he told the BBC that the government was sad about the tragic incident but that the truth must be said. “Not exactly, but the truth has to be said. Was there any clearance by the military, which is in total control of those areas? Did anybody ask to resume activity? I have been told by the military leaders that they had not been so advised and, certainly, therefore, it was a window that the terrorists exploited,” he argued. The presidential spokesperson however added, “The government is sad that this tragic incident has happened. Forty-three or thereabout of innocent farm workers, most of them had their throats slit by a heartless band of terrorists. People need to know what it is like in the Lake Chad Basin area. “Much of those areas have been liberated from Boko Haram terrorists but there are a number of spaces that have not been cleared for the return of villagers who have been displaced. So, ideally, all of these places ought to pass the test of military clearances before farmers or settlers resume activities on those fields.” According to him, terrorists have planted land mines in several places in Borno State, therefore it is not wise for anyone to go to those areas without adequate clearance. “Even if the people are willing to go back, a lot of those areas have been mined and mine clearance needs to be carried out. Those areas must be cleared as being okay for human habitation or agricultural activity,” he noted.  