 BY ANDREW EKEJIUBA Super Eagles forward Kelechi Iheanacho was an unused substitute as Leicester City suffered a 3-0 defeat in Anfield against Liverpool. Iheanacho was named in the squad that travelled to Liverpool in the game as the Foxes weree hoping to build on their winning after the international break. But once again, the former Manchester City player watched from the bench throughout as Leicester were handed their first away loss. Headers from Diogo Jota and Roberto Firmino added to Jonny Evans’ own goal was enough to hand Liverpool the three points. Speaking after the game, Leicester City manager Brendan Rodger, expressed his disappointment over the game, but also drew a lesson from the loss. He said: “I’m disappointed with the result and the first half. “It was a little bit too passive for my liking, in terms of how we played and then when we had the ball, we gave it away too cheaply looking for the counter-attack moment too early. “In saying that, we still had a couple of good chances. “Harvey Barnes was in and seven or eight yards out, it’s a big chance. “He’s just got to hit the target. “Then, JJ (James Justin) goes close with his moment, but we just weren’t, in the first half, aggressive enough, both with and without the ball. “The second half was much better. We gave it 15 minutes, we started well, and then we changed the shape of the team. “Then, if we could get the next goal, that was going to be the important moment in the second half, but unfortunately, we weren’t able to do that. “Conceding the first goal was disappointing, because in the main, we normally defend set-pieces well, but we’ve had a couple of times now, away at Man City, and away here, we’ve conceded two goals from set-pieces. “We’ve got to be more aggressive.” Rodgers also reflected on the positive side of his players who have performed since the beginning of the season. “We’ve had tough games in this opening period of the season,” he said. “I’m delighted with how the players have done considering all of the injuries we have. “Hopefully, over the next few weeks, we can start to get a few of them back. “We’ve been away to Man City, been away to Liverpool, been away to Arsenal, away to Leeds – they’re tough games for us – and a newly-promoted team in West Brom. “I think, where we’re at, I’m delighted. “We’re disappointed with tonight, we just lacked that aggression, in particular the first half, and that has cost us. “It’s an easy game to analyse. We’ll look at it and move on.”  