 BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE THE Lagos State Government said, on Wednesday, that in spite of the criminal activities of motorcyclists, who had taken laws into their hands and attacked its Task Force team, 131 motorcycles had been seized; 15 riders arrested and prosecuted; and 150 vehicles impounded in various areas of the state. The Government said this was done in line with its resolve to enhance the enforcement of the Lagos Traffic Law 2018 with which it had been checking the excesses of “commercial motorcyclists and others who drive against oncoming traffic and ply restricted routes.” These were contained in a statement by the Commissioner for Information and Strategy in the state, Gbenga Omotoso. Omotoso, however, vowed that the perpetrators of the violence against the Lagos Task Force team would be identified and made to face the law. He said this just as he revealed that a total of 97 vehicle owners had been prosecuted for various traffic offences, while 28 tricycle owners were arraigned in court, amid the enforcement, which began on Tuesday. The Point had reported that there was commotion on Tuesday along the Mile 2/Oshodi axis of Lagos State, when a riot broke out, following what the motorcyclists called harassment by Task Force officials. Again, on Wednesday, there was chaos at Dopemu/Ikeja Along, when Task Force officials also stormed the area early in morning for enforcement, impounding motorcycles and arresting riders. Reacting, the Commissioner for Information said, “The  State Environment and Special Offences (Enforcement) Unit (Taskforce) will keep enhancing the enforcement of the Lagos Traffic Law 2018 with which it has been checking the excesses of commercial motorcyclists and others who drive against oncoming traffic and ply restricted routes. The action is to halt the resurgence of impunity and violation of traffic regulations. “Amid the enforcement, which began on Tuesday, commercial motorcyclists have taken laws into their hands and attacked the Task Force team, injuring officers carrying out their lawful duties. The perpetrators of this violence will be identified and made to face the law.” Omotoso added, “However, the officers were undeterred by the criminal activities of the motorcyclists; 131 motorcycles were seized; 15 riders arrested and prosecuted; and 150 vehicles impounded in various areas of the state. “The Task Force subsequently arraigned and prosecuted 35 drivers of impounded vehicles, who had to forfeit their cars to the state for driving against oncoming traffic; 62 drivers who plied the BRT Corridor were fined N70,000 each; and 28 tricycle owners were also arraigned in court.”  