 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE THE Federal Government said, on Thursday, that with time, DJ Switch, one of the top campaigners of #EndSARS, would be exposed as a fraud. The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, who said this at a press briefing in Abuja, alleged that the popular DJ, whose real name is Obianuju Catherine Udeh, was fronting for those he described as divisive and destructive forces. “In the fullness of time, this lady will be exposed for who she is – a fraud, a front for divisive and destructive forces,” he stated. DJ Switch had been unrelenting in her claims of alleged shooting of #EndSARS protesters by soldiers at Lekki Tollgate, Lagos, on October 20, 2020, having been one of the protesters. The minister who had berated the CNN for relying on social media videos, without verification, to produce a report on the incident, said unscrupulous persons had been spreading fake news on the social media, and particularly blamed celebrities. In this regard, he singled out the sensational disc jockey, saying contrary to her claims, which she had also taken before a sub-committee on International Human Rights of the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and International Development of the Canadian parliament, no family had come out to claim that their family member was killed. The minister said, “One of the purveyors of fake news was one DJ Switch whose real name is Obianuju Catherine Udeh, even though she claimed authentic evidence of mass killings. Surprisingly, instead of presenting whatever evidence she might have, she chose to escape from the country, saying her life was in danger. In danger how?” He said the Military had said it was not in search of her and that to the best of his knowledge, the police never declared her (DJ Switch) wanted. Mohammed claimed, “Her conduct thus becomes suspect. Who is she fronting for? What is her real motive? Who are her sponsors? If she has any evidence, why is she not presenting such evidence to the panel? Since she was very desperate for asylum in any country, did she have to resort to blatant falsehood to tarnish the image of the country? “At this juncture, we want to appeal to countries that have made faulty judgements on the basis of fake news and disinformation emanating from #EndSARS crisis to endeavour to seek and find out the truth.”  