 BY ANDREW EKEJIUBA SUPER Eagles players were made to undergo coronavirus tests on Wednesday before their 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualification match with Sierra Leone. All the players in camp and members of the backroom staff including administrative and technical took the COVID-19 tests. The tests are required by the Confederation of African Football to ensure the safety of the players and officials participating in the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers. FC Lugano goalkeeper Sebastian Osigwe and Racing Genk striker Paul Onuachu previously tested positive for COVID-19 but fully recovered before their trip to the Edo State capital. If any of the Super Eagles players were to test positive following the latest round of testing, they would miss the games against Sierra Leone. By lunch time on Wednesday, all 23 invited players had arrived at the Eagles’ Eterno Hotel and Suites abode in Benin City, just before Sierra Leone’s 43-man contingent flew into town. The Leone Stars’ delegation had flown into Lagos aboard an ASKY airline flight from Freetown, before being lifted by a chartered flight to the Edo State capital. Technical Adviser Gernot Rohr, who superintended Nigeria’s qualification for the 2018 FIFA World Cup finals with a match to spare from a hard-as-nails pool that included Cameroon, Algeria and Zambia, and also led the Eagles to earn a 2019 AFCON ticket ahead of the final day of the qualifiers, said on Wednesday that he was expecting his wards to conform to style and taste. “We do not in any way under-rate the Sierra Leoneans that we play over two legs within these four days, but we have our focus and objective for the matches. “We want to win both games so we can have the ticket and be able to be little more relaxed for the final games. You know that next year, we also have the World Cup qualifiers to focus on. It is better to get the AFCON job behind us now. “I am excited by the spirit of the players and their sense of dedication and commitment. We have not played a competitive match in a year, but they look very ready and good to go. Our mission is the six points in these two matches,” he said. With the maximum six points from their first two matches of the campaign, three ahead of second-placed Benin Republic who square up to Lesotho, the Eagles will be sure of a spot in the Draw for the finals in Cameroon if they earn all the points at stake against the Leone Stars. A year ago, at the Godswill Akpabio Stadium in Uyo, the Eagles survived a scare as the Squirrels from Benin Republic scored to take the lead inside five minutes of kick off. Victor Osimhen levelled from the spot just before half time and winger Samuel Kalu slotted in the winner off a solo effort in the second period. Days later, the Eagles again fell behind against Lesotho’s Crocodiles in Maseru, before goals by Alex Iwobi and Samuel Chukwueze, and a brace by Osimhen put daylight between the Eagles and their hosts. Captain Ahmed Musa and his deputy, William Ekong sang similar tunes as Coach Rohr in previewing the two encounters with the Leone Stars, saying the players are hungry for victory in both games as they want to assure an early spot in Cameroon. The Leone Stars’ delegation is staying at the Lushville Hotel. After losing one and drawing the other in their first two matches of the qualification series, Coach John Keister and wards will look to make life difficult for the Super Eagles at a massively –upgraded Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium on Friday evening. But the Leone Stars have not had the upper hand against Nigeria since beating the Eagles in a FIFA World Cup qualifying match in Freetown 19 years ago.  