 AYO ESAN PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari’s administration has come under heavy  knocks by human rights and political activists who have described the current hike in pump prices of petroleum products  as insensitive to the plights of common Nigerians. Speaking with The Point, the activists wondered why the Federal Government chose to increase fuel price at this point in the nation’s history. The  Executive Chairman,  Centre for Anti Corruption and Open Leadership, Debo Adeniran, said the timing of the increment was wrong. “Increase in the pump price of petroleum products has been a recurring decimal in our nation. It seems that every administration has been doing this. One thinks the availability of petroleum products to Nigerians at affordable price should have been a way of assisting the masses, especially after the huge suffering that trailed the outbreak of COVID-19. “But it seems the government is uncaring; the government doesn’t have sympathy for the people it is governing . It wants the suffering of the people to be on the increase, instead of alleviating it. It is a wrong time for this to happen,” he told The Point. Adeniran also said no matter what was happening in the World economy, government ought to be sensitive about the current hardship an average Nigerian was going through. He also noted that the governments at all levels had not been creative. “They have relied so much on free money from oil. The government is just punishing the people. It is uncalled for and it should be reversed,” he argued. Also speaking with The Point, the National Coordinator of Democracy Vanguard, Comrade Adeola Soetan, said the hike was condemnable but warned Nigerians that it would continue to happen. He said, “Yes, there is an increase. It has to do with the free market economy that President Muhammadu Buhari has subjected us to. When you have a capitalist government whose interest is just to make money, to make profit,  you have a situation we have found ourselves. ” The increase is part of Buhari’s neo – liberal agenda and it is going to affect Nigerians, especially the masses. It is going to be a regular thing. You may wake up tomorrow and discover that the price is N500 per litre. “But when Buhari was campaigning for votes, he didn’t promise to add to Nigerians’ problems. It means he is not  truthful. It is also unfortunate that the Labour groups have gone to sleep. But they don’t have the monopoly of organising mass action. Every Nigerian should stand up to resist this. It is going to be a long battle.” To Sola Olawale, a member of the Campaign for Democracy, the problem actually lies with Nigerians. “Nigerians are becoming docile. We should resist the regular increase under this regime. Regime because this Buhari government looks and acts like a military government. It is as if the government is trying to test Nigerians’ patience. If not, why should this be happening shortly after #EndSARS protests. “The Buhari government has been insensitive to Nigerians’ plight. Increase in price of petroleum products at this time is uncalled for and dehumanising,” he said.  