 …’One kills prosecution witness same day’ BY ADEMETO ADELEKAN SOME of the inmates, freed from two correctional centres in Benin City, Edo State capital, by hoodlums during the #EndSARS protests, have been sending threat messages to policemen who investigated and prosecuted them, the Police has said. The Edo State Commissioner of Police, Johnson Kokumo, who said this on Saturday, also disclosed that one of the escapees, who had been convicted for murder, killed the prosecution witness in his village, that same day, but was immediately rearrested. He urged the public to join hands with the Police to restore normalcy to the state, saying those who had information about any of the escapees should work with the Police. Kokumo also revealed how a stray bullet hit a doctor attached to the Central Hospital in the middle of the continued killings and shootings in Benin. He however said three officers that were shot on Friday by hoodlums were recuperating. The Point had reported that many prisoners reportedly escaped on October 19, in Benin City, as hoodlums attacked the correctional centre along Sapele Road, popularly called White House. Many prisoners were set free, when the hoodlums reportedly overpowered the prison officials, and broke the walls to free the inmates. Speaking on the threats being sent by the escapees, the Commissioner said, “You can imagine what it means when three police stations along Sokponba Road are destroyed and burnt, and patrol vehicles destroyed in many other parts of the state capital. “All the officers in these stations now operate from the headquarters. The #EndSARS protest was hijacked by hoodlums and it took a violent turn in the state and prisoners were set free. So what do you expect? “Some of these escapees have been sending threat messages to policemen who investigated and prosecuted them. One of the escapees convicted for murder killed the prosecution witness, that same day, in his village. But he was rearrested immediately.” “Everybody must be part of the restoration of sanity. People who know these escapees should avail us information about them. I am assuring you that we are not sleeping. With what has happened to the Police in Edo, some of these hitches are expected,” he added. 