 BY AGNES NWORIE A member of the Vigilante group in Okoffia Ishieke Community of Ebonyi Local Government Area in Ebonyi State has allegedly raped three minors. The girls were said to have gone for an all night wake of their deceased relative, as part of the ceremonies lined up for the burial. The village vigilante member, identified as Chukwuemeka Omah, father of five, was said to have lured the girls out of the mourning area, with a promise to accompany them home in the early hours of September 20, 2020, with his security torchlight since the village roads were mainly bush paths, lonely and dark. The victims, aged 10, 11 and 13 years, respectively (names withheld), said the suspect, in the middle of the journey, far from the centre of the community, held them hostage and threatened to kill anyone who disobeyed his orders. According to them, Omah, who is married to two women and is also a native of the same community, ordered them to undress and lay down on the bare ground facing the sky or be killed with the long sharp machete he was holding. They alleged that he forcefully had carnal knowledge of them in turns without their consent in the middle of the forest. Speaking shortly after reporting the matter to the Family Law Center, Abakaliki, the parents of the victims, Sunday Edeh, Chukwuma Nwuzor and Rose Uguru, said they brought the case to the dispute resolution center for prosecution, following the alleged arrogance of the accused vigilante official, which made it impossible for their area security Chairman, Elijah Nwamini, to settle the matter in their locality. According to them, they want justice for the adolescent girls even as they said the suspect had been bragging that their efforts would not yield any fruit against him. During interview with the Chairman Ebonyi State Family Law Center, Abakaliki, Mrs Elizabeth Nwali, she condemned the act and disclosed that the center would do all legally necessary to secure justice for the sexually assaulted girls. The Chairman also advised parents and guardians to be more alive to their parental responsibilities, especially to their female children. Efforts to hear from the accused officer were not successful as of the time of filing this report. 