 US President Trump said Saturday the presidential election “is far from over” after Democrat Joseph R. Biden was projected as the winner. “We all know why Joe Biden is rushing to falsely pose as the winner, and why his media allies are trying so hard to help him: they don’t want the truth to be exposed,” Mr. Trump said in a statement released by his campaign. “The simple fact is this election is far from over.” His statement came after major news organizations called Pennsylvania for Mr. Biden, giving the Democrat more than the 270 electoral votes needed to win the presidency. He said Mr. Biden “has not been certified as the winner of any states, let alone any of the highly contested states headed for mandatory recounts, or states where our campaign has valid and legitimate legal challenges that could determine the ultimate victor.” “In Pennsylvania, for example, our legal observers were not permitted meaningful access to watch the counting process. Legal votes decide who is president, not the news media,” the president said. Pro-Trump demonstrations were taking place across the country on Saturday after Mr. Biden was declared the winner, including a “Stop the Steal” rally in Harrisburg, the capital of Pennsylvania. The president said starting on Monday, his campaign “will start prosecuting our case in court to ensure election laws are fully upheld and the rightful winner is seated.” “The American People are entitled to an honest election: that means counting all legal ballots, and not counting any illegal ballots,” he said. “This is the only way to ensure the public has full confidence in our election. It remains shocking that the Biden campaign refuses to agree with this basic principle and wants ballots counted even if they are fraudulent, manufactured, or cast by ineligible or deceased voters. Only a party engaged in wrongdoing would unlawfully keep observers out of the count room — and then fight in court to block their access.” He said, “So what is Biden hiding? I will not rest until the American People have the honest vote count they deserve and that Democracy demands.” – Washington Times 