 BY REBECCA AJANI THE Ondo State Government has commenced the payment of five months outstanding deductions to cooperative societies and two months subventions to state-owned tertiary institutions. The payment, the State Government said, would cost over N6 billion. Governor Rotimi Akeredolu gave the go-ahead for the commencement of the payment, following an agreement between Government and labour leaders, according to a statement by the Commissioner for Information and Orientation in the state, Donald Ojogo. He said pensioners, who would be paid for the month of September, would also benefit from the payment. The statement said, “All together, the payments would cost the government over N6 billion even as the five months deductions to cooperative societies cover May to September 2020. “Equally, the state government agreed to pay September salary to UNIMED workers and September pensions to the retirees. The government would also pay SUBEB staff, local government and primary school teachers their October salaries. “The two-page agreements were signed by representatives of the state government, led by the Head of Service, Dare Aragbaiye, and the organised labour leaders, led by the NLC Chairman, Sunday Adeleye; JNC Chairman, Niyi Fabunmi; and the TUC Chairman, Helen Odofin, represented by Tajudeen Balogun as well as leaders of affiliate unions.” The development, it added, was part of the efforts to avert industrial unrest in the public service over salary arrears, pensions, deductions to cooperative societies, and subventions to tertiary institutions and statutory bodies. “lt was also agreed that meeting with organised labour shall be held on a monthly basis after FAAC meeting to discuss mode of disbursement of Federal Allocation accruing to the State and other labour matters that will further strengthen the relationship between Labour and Government,” the State Government said. The Head of Service appreciated the organised labour leaders for their understanding and assured them of government’s commitment to their welfare and the overall development of the state. He noted that the relationship between labour leaders and the government in the state was about better welfare of workers. He also assured that government would remain committed to the welfare of workers, adding that their rights and privileges would not be denied.  