 LINUS CHIBUIKE THE Inter-Party Advisory Council has warned the Independent National Electoral Commission from pushing Nigeria into what it described as a one-party dungeon of autocracy. The Acting President, IPAC, Ralphs Nwosu, who gave the warning, added that, as opposed to dictatorships and autocratic forms of governments, the Nigerian system upheld the tenets of multiparty democracy, noting that leaders everywhere should prevent a few agenda-pushing government appointees from manipulating the processes. He spoke at a press briefing by the Council, held at the African Democratic Congress Global Campus in Abuja on Wednesday. Nwosu said, “Nigeria has for many decades, since its independence, witnessed sustained instability in her political space as a result of the inability of political leaders’ and their parties’ inherent lack of will to build the enduring culture of disciplined, purpose-driven and inclusive leadership. “The era of anything goes, destructive politics, crass opportunism and impunity, which have come to characterise our politics must come to an end. The roles played by political parties in modern democratic governments can not be overemphasised, hence, the resolve by the new leadership of the Inter Party Advisory Council of Nigeria (IPAC), under my watch, to bridge the gap and make parties relevant in the restoration of the soul of the Nigerian Nation. “As opposed to dictatorships and autocratic forms of governments, our system upholds the tenets of multiparty democracy, and leaders everywhere should ensure that a few agenda-pushing government appointees do not manipulate the processes and land us into a one-party autocracy. I worry that the Independent Electoral Commission, INEC, may unknowingly be leading the country into that dungeon.” The Acting President, who is also the National Chairman of ADC, pointed out that, following the recent agitations across the country, IPAC, under the current Central Management Committee, would create the enabling environment for multiparty practices to thrive and for youths, women and Persons with Disabilities to participate in politics without hindrance. “The resolve to champion this course is borne out of the need to ensure the inclusion of our diverse people, preservation of democratic rule in Nigeria, ensuring transparency and accountability in the nation’s political culture, and protecting the integrity of the Election Management body (INEC), as well as protecting the same institution (INEC) from self immolation,” he said. Nwosu further stressed, “This IPAC understands that parties need critical knowledge to increase representation for hitherto marginalised groups such as the Nigerian youths, women and Persons with Disabilities. Parties need tools to navigate or seek amendment of aspects of the Nigerian Constitution, which practically inhibit the participation of women, youths and Persons with Disabilities in politics, especially, Section 225(A). “The novel initiatives being embarked on by the Central Management Committee, CMC of IPAC, will definitely strengthen internal Party processes with knowledge-driven tools. IPAC leadership training and Party development programs will feature the following programs beginning this month.” According to him, the course contents will cover entrenching internal party democracy, inclusivity, role-modeling, delivering free, fair and credible elections, and roles INEC should play to stop the drain election tribunals and electoral cases inflict on the nation’s economy and judiciary, among others.  