 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI THE Commissioner for Inter-Governmental Affairs in Ebonyi State, Lazarus Ogbee, has resigned his appointment with the state government with immediate effect. In a resignation letter, dated November 12, 2020, titled, ‘Resignation of Appointment As Honourable Commissioner,’ the former commissioner said his reasons for opting out of the Governor David Umahi administration were personal. He, however, noted that he would, with immediate effect, duly hand over an official car, with Chassis No. KMH3813DLU109706, Model-Hyundai Tucson Jeep, Colour-Metalic Ash, as well as other government properties attached to his office, to the Secretary to the State Government. While Ogbee did not state his reasons for resigning, findings by our correspondent revealed that it might not be unconnected to Umahi’s reported defection to the ruling All Progressives Congress, which might not have gone down well with the Commissioner. Ogbee, it was gathered, might not be the only member of the Ebonyi Executive Council that would resign, as some others were also said to have been uncomfortable with the Governor’s decision. Umahi reportedly told those who were not comfortable with his decision to resign at a meeting with Exco members, where he made his decision to join the APC public. Ogbee’s resignation letter said, “I wish to inform his Excellency that I have decided to resign my appointment as the Honourable Commissioner for Inter-Governmental Affairs in the Ebonyi State Government, effective from today, Thursday, November 12, 2020. “The reason for my resignation is personal as I thank your Excellency for the opportunity given to me to serve as a Commissioner in the state.” It added, “I equally thank the Peoples Democratic Party family and my colleagues in the Executive Council for the cordial working relationship I enjoyed while in office as a Commissioner. “Please be informed that the official car with Chassis No. KMH3813DLU109706, Model-Hyundai Tucson Jeep, Colour-Metalic Ash and other Government property attached to my office are to be duly handed over to the Secretary to the State Government with immediate effect. “May God bless you as we look forward to a better Ebonyi State.” The Point had earlier reported in October that Umahi, who is also the Chairman of the South East Governors’ Forum, had secretly defected to the ruling All Progressives Congress. The member representing Ezza South/Ikwo Federal Constituency, Ebonyi State, in the House of Representatives, Chinedu Ogah, had confirmed the development in a telephone interview with The Point. Ogah, the only House of Representatives member from Ebonyi State, who was elected on the platform of the APC, had described the Governor’s move as a bold step in the right direction. The lawmaker, who did not disclose when, where and why the governor left the PDP, on which platform he was elected in 2015, however, told The Point that South East should “be in the central government; we can not continue to be in opposition.” But Umahi had denied that report, saying he was still very much in the PDP. Before his latest bold disclosure, the governor has had to refute reports of his defection about two times. He did so in 2018, barely 24 hours after Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State declared his intention to quit the APC. In January 2020, he also had to deny reports that quoted him to have said that he was a member of both the PDP and the APC, saying he was quoted out of context. 