 BY REBECCA AJANI THE Ondo State High Court has summoned the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Bamidele Oloyeloogun, to show cause why he should not be sent to prison for disobeying a court order with respect to the reinstatement of suspended lawmakers in the state. Three other Assembly members – Clerk of the Assembly, Bode Akinyelu; Parliamentary Secretary, Abayomi Akinruntan; and Deputy Majority Leader, Oladiji Olamide Adesanmi – were summoned along with the Speaker. Recall that four lawmakers – The Deputy Speaker, Iroju Ogundeji, Favour Tomomowo, Tomide Akinribido and Wale William-Adewinle – had been suspended about four months ago, allegedly over their refusal to sign an impeachment notice against the Deputy Governor of the state, Agboola Ajayi. Justice Ademola Bola had, in her judgement, ordered the reinstatement of the four members and the payment of compensation to them. The Appeal Court had also upheld the judgment of the lower court, ordering the reinstatement of the lawmakers and payment of their entitlements from the day of the purported suspension. Justice Oyebisi Omoleye of the Appeal Court also ordered the appellants to pay the sum of N250.000.00, jointly and severally, to the lawmakers as damages. But the affected lawmakers have not been allowed into plenary despite the court judgement. A few days ago, the Deputy Speaker, Iroju, was impeached for alleged gross misconduct and Aderoboye Samuel, representing Odigbo Constituency II, immediately elected as the new Deputy Speaker. Iroju, who had also been suspended since July, has not been able to resume plenary despite court order. The resolution that impeached Iroju was said to have been signed by 20 lawmakers in line with the Assembly’s Standing Order and was adopted. Following the continuous disobedience of court order by the Assembly, the four lawmakers filed contempt charges against the Speaker and three other members. In the notice of consequence of disobedience to order of the court, the lawmakers argued that the Speaker and the three other members would be liable to be committed to prison unless they obeyed the court order to the letter. The Speaker and others are expected to comply with, “A declaration that by the provision of section 36(1) and 2(a) and b of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 as amended and rules and standing orders of the Ondo State House of Assembly and the Code of conduct of the House, the indefinite suspension of the claimants from the House of Assembly was unlawful, null and void. “An order setting aside the indefinite suspension of the claimants from House of Assembly being unlawful and ultra vires of the power of the defendants, an order reinstating the claimants to their positions as members of House, restoring entitlements to them and the payment of N5 million as damages for the wrongful and unconstitutional indefinite suspension.”  