 AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI THE Ebonyi State Emergency Management Agency, in partnership with the Coordinator of Imoha Development Centre of Ezza North Local Government Area, has distributed relief materials to flood and fire disaster victims. During the timely intervention, the State Emergency Management Agency, SEMA, distributed relief materials worth millions of naira to the victims of flood and fire disasters in four communities – Inyere, Nkomorro, Ogboji and Ekka, all in Ezza North Local Government Area of the state. SEMA, Abakaliki office, under the leadership of Pastor Ken Eze, led his team, along with the Coordinator of the development centre, Mrs Rose Nwankwo, to the development centre headquarters, Achiegu, for the distribution. The materials distributed include: Building materials such as Zinc, Cements, Nails, and Food items like Rice, Garri, Beans, palm and vegetable oil, Salt, Sugar, Spaghetti, Macaroni, Spices, Tin tomatoes and Noodles. Others include: Clothing materials,
Mattresses, Blankets, Mosquito treated nets, Towels, Bathing and washing soaps, Plastic buckets and Beverages, among others. In his speech, the Executive Secretary of SEMA reiterated the agency’s readiness to always assist disaster victims to cushion the effects of their plights but admonished people to always be cautious in their dealings to avoid preventable disasters, saying the agency could never give them total repayment value of their lost valuables. On her part, the Coordinator pleaded with the people of the area to relocate from flood-prone areas, not to build or block water ways and to clear bushes around their houses, pens and farms to curtail future occurrences. She applauded Governor David Umahi for his fatherly heart and kind gestures towards those in need, and SEMA, for its steady response each time she beckoned on them. she advised the youths of the area to be vigilant and secure all public property in the area properly, saying those properties were for them and not for government’s use. She also enjoined them to be law abiding and shun anything that could dent their names. Responding on behalf of the disaster victims, Mrs Elom Ngozi, Mr Ekechi Martin and Mrs Nwakpa Theresa, who smiled home with relief materials, appreciated the Federal Government, the Coordinator, SEMA and the State government for their timely intervention. 