 … decorates him with Honorary Fellowship LINUS CHIBUIKE FORMER Governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, has been identified as one of the best Governors the South West of Nigeria has ever produced. Amosun, who is representing Ogun Central Senatorial District in the 9th Assembly, was singled out for unprecedented development of infrastructure and growth of Internally Generated Revenue in Ogun State during his tenure as Governor. The National President, Fisheries Society of Nigeria, Agbabiaka Adegoke, made these points during the 16th Fellowship Investiture of the Society in Abuja, where Amosun was given an award of exemplary leadership and decorated with a Honorary Fellowship of the Society. The Emir of Borgu Kingdom, His Royal Highness Muhammed Sani Haliru Dantoro, who was also decorated with a Honorary Fellowship, was accompanied to the occasion by key government officials and elected National Assembly members from Niger State. Dignitaries in Amosun’s entourage included the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Lekan Adegbite; Senator representing Ogun East Senatorial District, Lekan Mustapha; Senator Iyiola Omisore; Executive Commissioner, Nigerian Communications Commission, Adeleke Adewolu; and former federal lawmaker, Micky Kazeem, among others. While congratulating the awardees, the FISON president noted that the Society was not only looking at restructuring the sector away from its present status, but also transforming it to a business oriented sector if the state actors would appreciate the necessity and “explore potentials of members who are international consultants.” He, however, decried the paltry yearly budgets of the Fisheries sector, adding, “It is my prayer that our legislators here will rescue Fisheries Allocation in the 2021 budget still at the defence stage and beyond.” On the eminent personalities who were awarded the Fellowship of the Society, Chairman, Council of Fellows, FISON, Francis Sikoki, said, “If your actions create a legacy that inspires others to dream more, learn more and become more, then you are an excellent leader. “Without question, these eminent personalities we are about to honour today are embodiments of the above statement in their service to humanity in general and to the growth of the Fisheries sub-sector of our national economy in particular. “I congratulate you all and pray God to continue to bless and keep you to serve humanity.” Responding, Amosun thanked the organisers for the honour, and promised to support the Society, in collaboration with his colleagues at the National Assembly to enable it realise its major objectives.  