 KAMALA Harris’s husband has quit his law firm job for a White House role despite claiming he wouldn’t go into politics. Kamala Harris is United States’ Vice President-elect. Doug Emhoff will leave DLA Piper, where he is a partner, by inauguration day on 20 January. Emhoff took a leave of absence from the firm in August when vice president-elect Harris ran on Joe Biden’s ticket. The future second man is reportedly working with Biden’s transition team to establish a role for him in the administration, Associated Press reports. A Joe Biden official told Fox News that Mr Emhoff was “working with the Biden-Harris transition team to develop the portfolio he will focus on to support the work of the administration.” Emhoff joined DLA Piper in 2017 where he works with media, sports and entertainment clients, as well as intellectual property and technology, litigation, arbitration and investigations. “Douglas Emhoff is a highly experienced litigator and strategic advisor,” his DLA Piper profile reads. “Doug is known for tackling and resolving the toughest problems – whether by aggressively litigating high-stakes cases in the public glare or acting as a trusted advisor behind the scenes. “For over 25 years, Doug has proven himself in courtrooms and boardrooms across California and around the country.” Emhoff will be the first male spouse of the vice president after Ms Harris made history by becoming the first female holder of the office. Last month, Emhoff told People magazine that he had no interest in joining a “kitchen cabinet” of advisors if his wife won the election. “I’m her husband, that’s it,” said Emhoff. “She’s got plenty of great people giving her political advice. I’m her partner, I’m her best friend and I’m her husband. And that’s what I’m here for. I’m here to have her back.” Emhoff and Harris met on a blind date in 2013 and married in a quiet ceremony a year later. They share a $5 million home in the exclusive Brentwood neighbourhood of Los Angeles and have apartments in Washington DC and San Francisco. 