A social commentator and political Analyst, Jumu’ah Abiodun, and a Benin based Lawyer, Mr. Dennis Osaretin, have urged President Muhammadu Buhari; Secretary to the  Government of the Federation  and Chairman, COVID-19 Task Force, Boss Mustapha and National Leader of the All Progressives Congress , Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to call the APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, to order ahead of the June 22 party primaries in Edo. Jumu’ah, while speaking with our correspondent, cautioned the APC national chairman to desist from his present strategies of deliberately instigating direct primaries in Edo State amid prevalence of the novel COVID-19 in Nigeria. He said, “As a concerned citizen of this country, I will like to call the attention of Mr President, COVID-19 Task Force Chairman and National Leader of the ruling party, APC, to Oshiomhole’s strategies of deliberate instigating direct primaries in his state in order to accomplish his narrow-minded plan. “While it is not my affair to know how you run your party, my advice for you is, you need to terminate the idea of direct primaries in Edo State with immediate effect. “At this point in time whereby the nation recorded 1, 005 cases of COVID-19 within the last 72 hours, then Oshiomole is a clown with his direct primaries yearning. If your party wants direct primaries, your National Working Committee should approach other party chairmen for the postponement of the elections. “The widespread COVID-19 has already created tension and panic in Nigeria with the country’s confirmed cases surpassing 11, 000 with 315 deaths.” He added, “Curbing the spread of COVID-19 should be the priority of any responsible leader; not the direct primaries in which people will troop out massively to vote. “I’m using this opportunity to call on the World Health Organization (WHO), United Nation (UN), European Union (EU), the United Kingdom (UK), United States of America (US) and other international community to advise Buhari’s APC government not to go into any direct primaries for now that Nigeria is the second epicentre of the deadly virus in Africa.” Speaking in the same vein, a Benin-based lawyer, Mr. Dennis Osaretin, said the attempt being made by the Oshiomhole faction to conduct direct primaries in Edo State should be condemned by all. Osaretin said, “Our market men and women are still at home, the number of infected people is rising. Students and pupils are still at home because of COVID -19 Pandemic, why would anybody that is reasonable and love the people be clamouring for a primary that will cut across the nooks and crannies of the state. “We should avoid a disaster and I urge the APC National Working Committee members not to succumb to Oshiomhole’s call for a direct primary. That will be suicidal.” 