The Independent National Electoral Commission has reiterated its resolve to conduct the Edo and Ondo states’ governorship elections on its scheduled dates of September 19 and October 10, 2020, despite the novel COVID-19 pandemic ravaging the entire world. While many analysts and watchers of political developments in the country, who spoke with The Point, praised the bold steps taken by the electoral umpire concerning its stance on conducting the elections as scheduled, they were also in unison in saying that the tasks ahead of INEC in the elections were huge and that the electoral umpire  must brace for the huge challenges ahead. INEC had last month released the guidelines for the conduct of the Edo and Ondo states governorship elections and subsequent elections in the country. It said that it derived authority from Section 160 (1) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), which empowers the commission to, by rules or otherwise, regulate its own procedure or confer powers and impose duties on any officer or authority for the purpose of discharging its functions. It added that the Commission was also empowered by Section 153 of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) to issue regulations, guidelines and manuals for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of the Act. The commission said it would ensure that Pre-Election Preparation (PEP) activities would be conducted online, preferably, and where face-to-face activities became necessary, the protocols for COVID-19 prevention would be followed. According to the guidelines, the Commission said it shall conduct an immediate evaluation of its key election facilities to ensure that they are fit-for-purpose, including Polling Units (PUs), Registration Area Centres (RACs) and Collation Centres. These facilities will be reorganized to make them more optimal to health and cost considerations. It further said that in order to support improved planning and deployment during the COVID-19 pandemic, two key spatial and mapping activities shall be implemented namely, geo-referencing of RAC locations and mapping of COVID-19 prevalence. According to INEC, in handling and delivery of election materials, it shall reduce the number of contacts during distribution; when Non-sensitive Materials are procured, they will be delivered directly by vendors to states or purchased by states requiring the materials and packaged, according to quantity required by Registration Area. This, it said, would reduce the level and number of contacts during distribution. The commission said, “Ballot Papers and result sheets (Sensitive Materials) shall be packaged to Registration Areas (RAs). Production of Sensitive Materials shall commence early to give adequate time for proper packaging and delivery.” As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the commission said it would engage immediately with NYSC and INEC State Offices to evolve modalities for corps members to serve as ad hoc staff in elections during the pandemic. The Commission’s state offices will commence identification of alternative sources of ad hoc staff in line with the Commission’s policy, in case there are shortfalls. Furthermore, it said that the Commission would “ensure the use of electronic and non-contact means to recruit ad hoc staff by deploying its INECPres portal, as well as in notifying ad hoc staff of invitations and postings (for example, use of SMS) to prevent large gatherings at INEC offices during staff deployment. It further said, “The Electoral Operations and Logistics Department (EOPs) will harvest all past ad hoc staff from its databases and send to each State preparing for elections. “All ad hoc staff databases in the Commission will be harmonized for better management. To reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19, the Commission shall reduce to a minimum interstate ad hoc staff, for off-season and bye elections. The rule shall be that only shortfalls requested by the States are filled from outside the state. As much as possible, all election staff will be sourced in-state and transportation of election staff shall comply with COVID-19 containment protocols” Consequently, INEC said, “There shall be a reduction in the number of passengers per vehicle on election day from 14 to 7 for buses, and from 12 to 6 for boats. Motorcycles and tricycles must be used sparingly with one passenger per motorcycle and two per tricycle. All passengers and drivers must wear face masks and it shall be mandatory and the responsibility of vehicle owners to provide hand sanitizers for occupants of their vehicles.” For its Registration Area Centre (RAC) activities, INEC said that State Offices of the Commission shall conduct a thorough assessment of RACs to determine their suitability for elections. Also, it said that the designation of RACs and Super RACs shall be on a case by case basis, having due regards for the expanse of territory that they serve, terrain and adequate space in a RAC and no suitable alternative facility is available for a Super RAC option, canopies may be deployed outdoors to increase the available area for use. The commission said that C O V I D – 1 9 awareness shall be included in RAC briefing. Handouts, flyers and information kit on the pandemic will be distributed to election staff at the RACs and at the RACs, election staff may be checked by RAC Managers or Supervisory Presiding Officers (SPOs) for COVID-19 symptoms such as high temperature and coughing and that staff showing symptoms will receive medical attention and be replaced immediately from the reserve of staff, on the approval of the Electoral Officer and REC. In the establishment of Voting Points, the commission said that in order to reduce the number of points in a Polling Unit to be monitored and controlled for COVID-19 compliance, the threshold for Voting Points shall be increased from 500/750 to 1,000/1,250. On Election Day activities and at the Polling Units during elections, INEC  said that In the light of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Polling Unit layout shall be redesigned by the Commission to ensure substantial compliance with the protocols established by health authorities and among other things, social distancing, general hygienic conduct and enforcement of COVID-19 prevention protocols shall be emphasised in the redesign. INEC said that there shall be a two-tier queuing system at the Polling Unit – one outside and the other in the voting area, explaining that voters will be brought into the voting area periodically to prevent overcrowding while Tags and twines may be used to ensure crowd control and maintenance of social distancing. Also, it said that in order to accommodate additional activities in setting up the PU due to COVID-19, polls shall now commence at 8.30 am and close at 2.30 pm and anybody on the outer queue by 2.30 pm shall be allowed to vote, in line with the Commission’s regulations. “Prior to the commencement of polls, the Presiding Officer or Assistant Presiding Officer (VP), it said, shall ensure that the contents of the Voter Code of Conduct (VCC) are read out loudly to voters and that the VCC Poster is pasted at the Polling Unit,” it said. It said that face masks shall be mandatory at Polling Units and all election locations. Any voter without a face mask shall be turned away from the Polling Unit. However, the Assistant Presiding Officer (APO) II in checking the Register of Voters may request removal of mask to prevent voter impersonation. According to the commission, there shall be periodic disinfection of chairs, tables and work areas, as well as adequate ventilation at the Polling Units. And that the SCR shall be cleaned with the prescribed disinfectant after each voter’s fingerprint is read. Also, INEC said that P e r s o n a l P r o t e c t i v e Equipment (PPE) and other safety materials shall be provided for polling staff and at the close of polls, polling unit staff shall ensure that materials are properly disinfected, carefully packaged and that used PPE are hygienically packaged or disposed of. For purposes of collation of results after election, it said, “The Commission will cluster RA collation centres where feasible, in order to reduce exposure of people to the risk of COVID-19, speed upcollation and reduce costs.  “There shall be a designated area at each Collation Centre (outdoors) for the implementation of the safety and health measures such as compulsory wearing of face masks, hand sanitizing, body temperature check, etc. “There shall be 2 metre (6ft) queuing distancing for all seeking to enter the collation hall. “There shall also be 6 ft sitting spacing arrangement within the collation hall. “In order to prevent overcrowding during collation, only one polling agent of a party on the ballot (or the candidate in person) for the election(s) shall be allowed into the collation hall,” the guidelines state. Speaking on the INEC preparations for the two elections, the Executive Director, Public and Advocacy Centre, Mr. Clement Nwankwo, commended the commission on the guidelines issued for the elections,  but said it should be improved upon whenever INEC met with the various stakeholders  . He said, “Though the INEC Guidelines are not derived from the constitution, no section of the guidelines affects the constitution. “We can’t have everything captured in the constitution, but the guidelines are plausible because we cannot and should not, through elections, increases the spread of the disease. It is good that INEC is thinking positively and proactively. The election is part of life, part of democracy, a country and people must be governed despite pandemic.” He said he disagreed with people who said voting should not happen because of COVID-19, but said INEC had done well for sticking to the schedule dates for the elections. He also called on the National Assembly to go back to the issue of amendment of the Electoral Act  and brush it up to introduce e-voting, saying that will help INEC tremendously . Also speaking, the Edo State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Mr. Tony Aziegbemi, said INEC’s response to COVID -19 pandemic was commendable, adding that the political parties should also cooperate with the commission in order to ensure successful elections this year. He said the PDP was ready to abide by the guidelines released by  INEC and that the party would observe social distancing and other conditions released in the guidelines, saying at the end of the day, his party would evolve ways of reaching out to the electorate with a view to taking the control of Edo State. Also speaking with our correspondent, the Ondo State PDP Publicity Secretary, Mr Ayo Fadaka, said though COVID -19 had hindered the normal physical contact with the electorate, the party would evolve other ways of carrying out its politicking and would abide by the INEC guidelines. His view was also corroborated by the Director of Media and Publicity, Ondo State All Progressives Congress, Mr. Steve Otaloro, who said every stakeholder must cooperate with INEC for the successful conduct of the coming elections. Comrade Sola Olawale, a member of the Campaign for Democracy, also advised INEC to adjust its budget, saying the pandemic would lead to more spending. “It is better for INEC to approach the government for more funding. Through its releases, the Personal Protective Equipment, face mask, sanitizers and so on   will cost INEC further expenses. So, as early as possible, INEC must seek more funds and the government should not hesitate in releasing the funds in order to have successful elections. “Nigerians across the various geo-political zones are waiting to see how INEC, the political parties and other election stakeholders will carry out the coming elections without affecting the health status of the electorate.” 