Nobel laureate, Wole Soyinka, has said that President Muhammadu Buhari is not in charge of the affairs of Nigeria, considering the trend of events in the last 18 months. He said this on Plus TV on Thursday, while commenting on a letter written by Col. Dangiwa Umar (retd) to the President, on alleged lopsided appointments. The nobel laureate said he was appalled by the silence that followed the letter, considering the weighty allegations, noting, however, that those responsible for the lopsided appointments in the current cabinet must be punished. “I have said this before. I don’t believe there is really anybody in charge in Aso Rock. I’m sorry to say this. But I’ve been studying the trend over the past year and a half and I believe this President is not in charge of this nation, in so many aspects and directions,” he said. Soyinka noted that Col. Umar hit the nail hard and got to the point factually without self-interest. “I was appalled when I saw the letter and I said to myself: why should I be surprised that such atrocities have been going on?… They said there is going to be an inquiry. I think it is a waste of time and energy. There will be some joggling here and there. The answer for me will always get back to decentralislation,” he added. Soyinka said Umar’s revelation was “earth-shaking and really nation disintegrating,” adding that “it requires two things: One is outright denial with proof that it is false. Two, literally, a restructuring of that sector completely. Something like send everybody there on temporary leave and revamp.” While explaining why those responsible for the lopsided appointments must be punished, he said, “It is not sufficient to discuss it and to say you are restructuring. It is criminal at this level.” “I was appalled by the silence that followed this revelation. There are many of us who feel inhibited. We don’t want to make statements that might seem inflammatory. And yet this kind of reticence encourages a sense of impunity,” the nobel laureate said. 