The Lagos State Government says it has concluded plans to improve roads across the state. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Works and Infrastructure, Aramide Adeyoye, who led top management of the Ministry on an inspection of some ongoing road construction works in Ikorodu and Gbagada, Kosofe Local Government Area, disclosed that plans were in the pipeline to place registered contractors into different categories. This, he said, was to ultimately determine the quality and volume of projects each contractor would handle. Adeyoye said the purpose of the inspection was to assess the quality of work, stage of completion and materials being used by the contractors, noting, “As the process of reopening the economy takes shape after the COVID-19 lockdown, we decided to embark on a tour of ongoing road projects across the state in order to ensure quality control and standards in the delivery of all our projects.” She said the present administration had set a Standard Operating Procedure for all construction projects, adding that the state’s crop of engineers had been empowered to monitor and ensure that the quality of work done by contractors was up to international standards. “Quality assurance is the hallmark of this administration. We cannot afford to compromise standards in all projects as all these projects are being financed through taxpayers’ money. The only way to compensate them is to ensure they have value for their money,” she said. While observing that extensive work was ongoing on the Ijede and Agric-Ishawo Roads, when the team visited the construction sites, the Special Adviser said some of the observations by the team had been communicated to the contractors. She stressed that government would not issue certificate of completion on any road project not done to the required standards and scope of work. She emphasised the need for quality jobs and total adherence to project guidelines and directed contractors to effect corrections, as identified by the team, directing that site engineers must ensure contract specifications were met. Adeyoye added that the tour would be extended to other parts of the state, where road projects were ongoing, assuring Lagosians that government was determined to ensure these projects were delivered according to schedule. 