The Criterion, an association of Muslim Women in Business and Professions, has condemned in strong terms, the spate of rape and murder in the country in recent times. The association, which has its core values centred on women and children, has also called for justice and a comprehensive investigation into the gruesome murders of Barakat in Ibadan, Uwaila Omozuwa who was recently murdered in Benin, and Azeezat, who was also brutally murdered in cold blood in Aba Ijefun, Ibadan. Also in April this year, an 18 year old lady known as Jennifer was alledgedly attacked and raped by a gang of five men in Kaduna, a city in Northern Nigeria. The Criterion, in a statement signed by its National Ameerah (President), Hajia Fatymah Yewande Oyefeso, called on the relevant authorities to bring the perpetrators of the Barbaric crimes to book. The National Ameerah, while expressing grief over the incidents, lamented the incessant incidents of rape and murder of the girl child and young women in the country and charged the authorities to halt the wicked act. She said, “Violence against women in any form is against Islamic injunctions. Barakat was a decent woman that adorned hijab {head covering) according to the dictate of Islam. It is pathetic that despite dressing decently, Barakat was raped and gruesomely murdered. We are yet to overcome the shock of the recent gruesome rape and murder of Uwavera Omozuwa, a 22 year old Microbiology student of the University of Benin, and this one happened again. “Only yesterday, again, another lady named Azeezat (a post graduate student of University of Ibadan) was also gruesomely murdered in Ibadan. Not forgetting the rape and murder of Jennifer in Kaduna. These incidents are getting too many in this country and drastic steps need to be taken to abate this. These are promising young ladies that had their lives trauncated for no just cause. “We appeal to the Inspector General of Police to bring the perpetrators of this heinous crime to justice immediately. The increasing incidents of rape and murder of the girl child is worrisome, Violence against women must stop. We feel the pains of the parents and relatives of these ladies. Only Allah can console them. We pray Almighty Allah grants their parents and loved ones the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss.” 