There are strong indications that the alleged plot to impeach the Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Agboola Ajayi, may have gathered more weight, The Point’s investigation has revealed. It was learnt, at the weekend, from some pro-Governor Rotimi Akeredolu lawmakers, that the signatures of over 70 per cent of the state House of Assembly members had been secured, in the ongoing bid to get the buy-in of two-thirds of legislators. On the other hand, however, our correspondent gathered from the deputy governor’s camp that getting a two-third agreement to perfect the plot was impossible. A source close to the two camps claimed that even those who had agreed to stamp their signature were also waiting on the promoters of the bid to perfect the agreements associated with the impeachment. “There is even a position that the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Bamidele Oloyelogun, should be the first to be impeached,” he said, not wanting to disclose his name. Nineteen lawmakers had been invited to a special meeting to that effect on Saturday, it was gathered, but four legialtors, believed to be on the side of Ajayi, were reportedly excluded from the list of invitees. Media aide to the deputy governor, Allen Sowore had written an open letter to the Speaker of the House of Assembly, saying, “I’m writing this letter to humbly bring to your notice that arrangements have been concluded and strategies perfected by the state executive arm to orchestrate your removal as Speaker of the State House of Assembly. “This is to pave way for the eventual removal of the Deputy Governor, His Excellency, Agboola Ajayi, for exercising his constitutional right of association – leaving the All Progressives Congress, (APC) for the People’s Democratic Party, PDP).” Observers are however keen on seeing the end of this power play, as the Ondo governorship election draws near. The deputy governor had defected to PDP last week amid a mild drama with the Commissioner of Police in the state, Bolaji Salami, and had insisted that he would not resign from his position on account of his defection. 