A Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, has barred Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State from participating in the primary election of the Peoples Democratic Party, slated for Thursday, June 25, 2020. A PDP governorship aspirant in the state, Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama, who had vowed not to step down for Obaseki, instituted the case, according to court documents sighted by our correspondent. Ogbeide-Ihama prayed the court to stop Obaseki from participating in the primary on the ground that he only recently joined the party. Consequently, the court ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission not to recognise Obaseki as an aspirant in the primary election of the party in Edo State. In the suit, Ogbeide-Ihama also questioned the validity of Obaseki’s certificates among other grounds. The defendants in the suit No: FHC/PH/CS/69/2020 are: Prince Uche Secondus, Emmanuel Ogidi, Hon. Kingsley Chinda, Chief Debekeme Boyleyefa, Senator James Manager, Hon. Barr. Ajibola Muraina, People Democratic Party, Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki and the Independent National Electoral Commission. The plaintiff had sought an order of Interim Injunction restraining the 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 Defendants from allowing the 8 Defendant or any member or non-member other than those that have purchased forms and were screened within the time stated in the said election timetable, to contest the 7 Defendant’s Primary Election rescheduled to hold on 25 June, for the purpose of nominating or electing Its candidate for the year 2020 Governorship Election In Edo State pending the hearing and determination of the Motion on notice for Interlocutory Injunction. He also prayed an order of interim injunction restricting INEC from further recognising Obaseki as candidate of the party’s primary, pending the determination of the suit. Hon. Justice E.A Obile also granted to the applicant an order for substituted means of Service on the 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 defendants by serving the Originating Summons and other Court Processes in this suit on the said Defendants through publication in two (2) National Dallies (Newspapers) Or by serving the Originating Processes and other Court Processes in this suit at the respect addresses at the various Defendants as reflected on the Originating Summons. He, however, granted an order for accelerated hearing on the matter and adjourned till 24th June, for hearing of motion on notice. 