Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai and troops on the frontlines have been commended for liquidating top Boko Haram/ ISWAP commanders and 72 fighters in Borno. The National Democratic Front showered praises on the COAS for once again leading troops of Operation Lafiya Dole to another victorious outing against the terrorists. According to the pro-democracy group, the current feat complements the gains made by the military in the last three months, with the fallen terrorists numbering over 700. Troops of Operation Lafiya Dole have intensified their onslaught on the fleeing radical Islamic fighters following Gen. Buratai’s relocation to the northeast. Recently, the rejuvenated troops launched a counter-attack on the terrorists, who attempted to overrun Banki and other communities in Borno State, and in the process, slew its top commanders alongside 72 others. In a statement by its Secretary-General, Dr. Abdulkadir Bolaji, the NDF hailed the COAS for remaining on the field of operations since March, adding that his presence had brought “monumental success for the country.” With the renewed vigour and gallantry among the troops, the NDF reckoned that the deadline for the total annihilation of the terrorists groups in Nigeria would be met in no distant time. The group, however, urged “Lt. Gen. Buratai and his men not to relax or think that the terrorists would relent in their efforts to cause more damage to the polity.” Read full statement below: We wish to laud, commend and appreciate the Nigerian military particularly troops of Operation Lafiya Dole, which have been fighting Boko Haram and ISWAP terrorists in Northeast Nigeria, who have once again had a victorious outing in their quests to defeat terrorism and insurgency in Nigeria. This time, the troops launched a counter-attack on the Boko Haram terrorists, who attempted to overrun Banki and other communities in Borno State, and in the process, killed top commanders of the terrorist group and liquidated 72 of their fighting men. Details of the encounter garnered from various sources indicated that the counter attack followed a failed attack on troops’ location at Banki Junction by terrorists within the 7 Division strike group response area and that it has been confirmed by competent military sources that the high ranking commanders of the Abubakar Shekau’s faction of the Boko Haram terrorist group were killed. Top commanders of the Boko Haram that have been taken out, according to top military sources, include Manzar Halid, Amir Abu Fatima and Nicap, among others. Going by the confession of former Boko Haram members, these men are some of the notorious kingpins of the group, who have either masterminded or led some of the deadliest operations of the group. Apart from that, we also have it on good authority that 72 members of the Boko Haram were also neutralised and many others wounded with narrow chances of survival. Those wounded, according to released information from the military, include some high profile commanders and fighters of the Boko Haram namely, Abu Jamratu AL-Naweer, Kaka Bana and Tareta Babakari, while a large number of their equipment , including gun trucks, motorcycles and bicycles were destroyed by troops. The Boko Haram terrorists were said to have on seeing the superior fire power from Nigerian troops made to retreat and withdraw from the base but were not successful as troops had already enclosed them due to superior tactics and manoeuvres and liquidated many of them. Reports also indicate that the Boko Haram/ISWAP groups have been totally shattered and devastated and further weakened after this latest attack which is an addition to the sustained onslaught against the terrorists groups since March this year. NDF notes that the current feat complements the gains made by the military in the fight against insurgency and terrorism and brings to nearly 700, the number of terrorists top comanders and fighters that have been brought down within a spate of three months. It also adds to the number of communities and persons that have been saved from attempted attacks by the terrorists in recent times. This feat calls for an applause to the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen TY Buratai who has been at the field of operation since March as well as for the troops for performing at excellent levels and reducing to the barest minimum activities of terrorists and insurgents in Nigeria. We, at the NDF are not in any way surprised by the success of the current operation as the presence of the COAS in the theatre has brought about monumental success for the country on its campaign against Boko Haram/ISWAP insurgency in the country. With the renewed vigour and increase gallantry of the Nigerian troops, we are optimistic that the deadline for the total annihilation of the terrorists groups in Nigeria would be met and we have no iota of doubt that the troops led by the Chief of Army Staff would deliver on the mandate. We notice with pride that since the relocation of the army chief to the theatre of operation, the moral of troops have been boosted and it has been reports of success stories all through. Nigerians are beginning to see why the President places so much confidence on the current structure of the military high command as Nigeria has never had it so good in the fight against insurgency which at a time seemed to have overwhelmed our troops. We urge Buratai and his men not to relax or think that the terrorists would relent in their efforts to cause more damage on the polity. If events of the past are anything to go by, the constant pummelling of the terrorists groups would make them want to prove that they are still deadly and desperate to attempt another attack. The military must therefore be vigilant to make sure they’re routed out any time they attempt to do so as it has done in several of their attempts to attack major towns and communities in recent times. We commend the Chief of Army Staff for good and quality leadership, brilliant strategies and planning and for his presence at the war front. We on behalf of other Nigerians thank him and the troops for making the country secured for all of us to live in and go about our various businesses and we are grateful to President Muhammadu Buhari for picking the right men for the job. 