Let me display my ignorance or naivety, when I say as a Chief Security Officer of a state, the governor’s pronouncement or action, especially on issues of security as relating to his state is final. As governor, he knows where the shoes pinches him most, especially on security matters, as he has unlimited access to sources of information. Giving it the “ordinary meaning” (apology to Chief Richard Akinjide), the governor is assumed to be the Alpha and Omega in all ramifications of security in his zone or territory in both proclamation and execution. However, this is not so in the real sense in Nigeria as the governors designated as Chief Security Officers in their respective states are living in borrowed robes. It is an appellation that sounds at best like mere paper verbiage. This is despite the fact that they contribute substantially in logistics equipment and otherwise to the sustenance of the security apparatus in their respective states. Yet, this is a federation with autonomous states that lack power over the control and deployment of security personnel regarded as property of the Federal government in the exclusive list of the federal constitution. Take for instance, no state governor in Nigeria can give order a directive to a recruit either in the Army, Police, Civil Defence or any security agency that is federally owned, notwithstanding the fact that such coercive forces are within the jurisdiction of the sitting governor. My mind suddenly went back to the early eighties when it was a rule that any directive given by a state governor to the Commissioner of Police in his state must be cleared first by the Inspector General of Police before such directive could be carried. I am not sure of the position now. This brings me to the recent passionate plea by Governor Babagana Umara Zulum of Borno State to the Nigerian Army to deploy troops to the strategic Auno town on the major highway and about ten kilometers to Maiduguri, the state capital. On several occasions, Governor Zulum had appealed to the army to redeploy troops withdrawn months back to the town, but to no response. Auno has been a flashpoint experiencing several attacks from Boko Haram members resulting in loss of lives, property and damage to infrastructure, the latest being on Sunday February 9, 2020, when thirty travelers were slaughtered, 20 others abducted, 18 vehicles destroyed along with other items by the suspected terrorists. However, about fortnight back, Zulum was again in Auno on official duty. To his dismay, over 60 per cent of the population of the town have fled due to constant harassment by the suspected terrorists. The governor appealed to the people to come back as efforts were being made for their safety and wellbeing. Professor Zulum took the opportunity once more to plead with the army to send troops to the town for security of lives and property. Up to the time of writing, there has not been official information of deployment of troops to Auno and things look fluid and fragile. There is, however, hope that the security situation in the town will take a leap for better. It would be recalled that the latest attack on Auno by the suspected insurgents, which drew the condemnation of President Muhammadu Buhari and the nation, occurred on February 9, 2020. In its editorial on this heinous crime, The Nation, February 16, 2020, under the title, “Zulum Warning – the attack on Auno and Borno governor’s lamentations” hint at the inexplicable impotence in the terror war” reads in parts: “Thirty travelers were reported slain in an attack last week by terrorists on Auno, a rural community on Damaturu-Maiduguri road in Konduga council area of Borno State. About 20 others were abducted by the attackers suspected to be Boko Haram insurgents, while 18 vehicles and other property items were razed in a fire kindled by the attackers. “The attack occurred at about 9.50p.m. On Sunday as the travelers slept in their vehicles after being stranded for hours on the highway because military operatives from Operation Lafiya Dole had locked up and deserted the access gate they erected at their checkpoint in the village owing to a curfew regime that takes effect 5pm daily. Dozens of travelers, who reportedly arrived the spot few minutes past 5p.m., were forced to pass the night in Auno – some 25km away from Maiduguri. “Eyewitnesses said terrorists stormed the checkpoint in a coordinated fashion, firing a grenade at a fuel-laden tanker that burst into flames, torching some other vehicles in the vicinity and incinerating sleeping occupants. Even where some occupants were jarred awake by the fiery chaos, they were immobilized by a raging gunfire from the assailants. Within
minutes, the scene was a hellish bonfire of burning vehicles and humans. Only those lucky to be slightly further off ran for safety. “The terrorists reportedly roved among vehicles spared the tongues of flame and corralled more than a score of the shell-shocked travelers at gunpoint into vehicles with which they made their own getaway. Other reports said before fleeing, they also rampaged through the village, seizing valuables like mobile phones from the locals and looting their wares. The attack lasted more than a couple of hours unhindered. “Furious Bono State Governor Babagana Zulum visited the scene of attack on Monday, berating the military’s handling of the security situation. “I am being pushed to the wall to say the truth,” he blurted. “Since my inauguration as governor of Bono State, Auno town has been attacked about six times. And the reason is that the military has withdrawn from the town. We have made repeated pleas to the military to re-establish a base in Auno since it is one of the flashpoints of the Boko Haram (insurgency), but nothing has been done to that effect,” A troop commander on hand during the governor’s visit, argued that soldiers were on ground in Auno, but was rebuffed by Zulum, who retorted, “No, you were not here.” He continued: “There were no soldiers here, they had all withdrawn. We are not being confrontational or undermining the capacity of the Nigerian military, but the fact is that we’ve made several attempts for the Nigerian military to establish their unit its Auno, but nothing was done. As soon as it’s 5 o’clock they close up their gate, abandon the people and move over to Maiduguri. “The governor, who declared “more than 30 lives” lost, claimed there was prior intelligence by the Department of State Security on the attack that was not taken advantage of. “Not that the military hadn’t their own account of the attack. Theatre Commander, Major-Gen. Olusegun Adeniyi, said the carnage wouldn’t have happened if travelers kept to the military’s ban on plying the troubled route after 5p.m. ‘The military is conducting (24-hr) counter insurgency…By day we are busy securing the road, ensuring that commuters are able to move, and by night we go after these insurgents that are coming to attack people in their communities. The army usually carries out its night attacks and ambushes on Boko Haram with the understanding that the road has been dosed to commuters and there are no vehicles on the road,” he said, Adeniyi also put the casualty figure at 10, rather than 30 being touted. President Muhammadu Buhari has been reported condemning the Auno attack as “murderous and cowardly.” Governor Zulum has cried and is still crying for help. As the Governor of the state, he knows better where the shoe pinches. He deserves the ears of the army and all concerned. The people of Auno and others in similar situation deserve attention. There is, indeed, the need for understanding and collaborative efforts between the governor and the military. Let our modicum of sense override our sentiments, feelings and emotions so that we shall all be the victors at the end. . Victor Izekor is a journalist and writes at victorizekor@gmail.com. 