The Osun State Government has concluded plans to implement some of the reviewed education policies in the state ahead of resumption. Recall that the state government, under the leadership of Governor Gboyega Oyetola, had approved the reversal of the single school uniform, ‘reclassification’ of the public school system and the restoration of conventional single sex schools among other reversals of policies made by the adminstration of his predecessor, Rauf Aregbesola. The approval came after some recommendations made by a panel led by Olu Aina, which was set up to review education policies of the past administration, were considered by the state government. The panel, which was made up of experts in the field, became necessary after the clamour for the policy reviews by educationists, school administrators, missionaries, school owners and the good people of the state. The team of Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), led by the Chairman, Israel Famurewa, made this known while joining the concluding part of data gathering and physical assessment tour done round the nine federal constituencies of the state by top government officials, in Ijebu-jesha High School on Friday. The implementation of the recommendations of the review panel has necessitated the data gathering and physical assessment of school for take-off. The top officials of SUBEB, who joined Famurewa on the tour, include the Executive Secretary of SUBEB, Mr. Adeoye Bakare; Commissioner (Technical), Chief Moshood Adekunle Oluawo; Commissioner (Services), Hon. Amos Akindiya; and other members of the board and directors. In his submission, the Chairman of SUBEB, Israel Famurewa, said, “There is a need to fast-track the process of implementing the review on the education policy so as to put necessary logistics in place before the schools resume. “Thus, this necessitated this tour across the nine federal constituencies of the state as it is hoped to bring the desired result in no distant time for the benefit of our children and their teachers”. In his remark, the Director of School in the State Universal Basic Education Board, Yaya Bakare, said, “The tour is for data gathering and physical assessment of schools across the nine federal constituencies of the state as it preludes the implementation before the schools’ resumption.” The concluding tour was done alongside the top officials from the state ministry of education. 