…describes news of new monarch as fake THE Osoja Royal Family of Ikeja, in Ikeja Local Government Area of Lagos State, has petitioned Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu over a recent claim that the vacant stool of Olu of Ikeja has been filled. The family, in a letter to the Governor, dated August 10, 2020, appealed to him to urgently intervene by installing one of the two remaining nominated sons of the Osoja family as the Olu of Ikeja. The stool of Olu of Ikeja has remained vacant for about six years since the demise of the last monarch, Oba Rauf Amore. The letter to the Governor was signed by one Prince AbdulKareem Osoja, on behalf of the family. The family alleged that certain individuals recently sponsored a publication, claiming that the Osoja royal family, whose turn it was to produce the next Olu of Ikeja land, had picked one Prince Wasiu Adeleye as the next monarch. The letter said, “Reacting to their claims, we want to state that it is a blatant lie and a fallacy of deception. They are out to put the name of the highly placed Osoja Royal Family into disrepute. “The family long ago sent a disclaimer to this effect via a letter dated 9th October, 2014 with Ref No: ORH/AD/2014/02. The family strongly reaffirms and again states without fear that the Osoja Royal House of Ikeja did not at any time appoint Prince Wasiu Adeleye as the only candidate as publicly claimed by the mischief makers.” It added, “The Osoja Royal family forwarded a letter Dated 22nd December 2014 with Ref No: ORH/AD/2014/03 containing three names of its sons (Prince Shamsideen Adeleye (now late), Prince Nurudeen Adeleye and Prince Wasiu Adeleye) and asked the government to pick based on merit, a person with an impeccable and unquestionable character, which the government had since been acting upon. “The Osoja Royal Family of Ikeja wants to use this medium to sound a note of warning to whom it may concern, to henceforth desist from infringing on the family’s rights, hence making claims that can jeopardise the already existing progress in respect to the filling of vacant seat of Olu of Ikeja by the family.” 