THERE are strong indications that the lingering crisis in the Ogun State Peoples Democratic Party is about to be resolved, following the revelation, in a leaked video, that the late popular Ogun politician, Senator Buruji Kashamu, begged business mogul, Kessington Adebutu, aka Baba Ijebu, for forgiveness before his death. It was not clear whether the conversation was around his trying times on the sick bed or before he fell ill. Kashamu was heard, in the video that went viral on Wednesday, pledging to support the leader of the PDP National Working Committee faction in the state, Ladi Adebutu, to become Governor of Ogun State. He also promised to withdraw all cases in court. He said, “I beg you in the name of God. I am prostrating; please forgive me for everything I must have done to offend you. It is just a misunderstanding. I did not say I won’t support Ladi. You are my father. There was nothing I did that I did behind your back. I always carried Segun (Adebutu’s son) along. “When I went to Ghana, I told Segun to come and take the documents and give them to you, that I was ready to follow you, no matter what you plan to do. But Segun refused. When I started the trouble with BETNAIJA, Segun was the one who said I should go and start the trouble with them; that I should not allow them to go. “At the end of the day, Segun joined hands with some other people (he mentioned their names) and they dissapointed me. Nevertheless, I have looked at the whole thing, that was why I decided to call you this morning. Please find a place in your heart to forgive me. God will give you long life. “If tomorrow, I tell you I won’t support Ladi, you should conclude that I am a bastard.” When the elder Adebutu asked Kashamu what he would say about the war he waged against him, the late politician was heard saying, “Baba, I did not wage any war against you. When they went to write a letter that I was the one blocking the government, when they started telling lies against me, that was what caused that one. I am not in a position to fight with you. “When Ladi pulled down my structure in Ogun State, and I had spent money on it. You left us, you didn’t wade into the crisis. But I tell you, from today, I will give Ladi all the support that I can give him to become Governor in Ogun State. “I don’t want anything, but forgive me Baba. You’re my father any day, any time. Wherever Ladi wants to go, I will follow him.” Adebutu replied, saying God would forgive everyone, and asked Kashamu to withdraw all the cases in court if he was sincere. “I will withdraw everything,” kashamu responded. This revelation, according to analysts, may have spoilt the calculations of some PDP leaders, who might have planned to continue using Kashamu’s structure to cause disaffection in Ogun PDP. See video below: Video Player 