THE Movement for the Actualisation of Sovereign State of Biafra has described the bloody clash, on Sunday, between security operatives and members of the Indigenous People of Biafra as an orchestrated plot to demoralise the rising clamour for a President of Igbo extraction in 2023. MASSOB told South East politicians that the chaos, which erupted at Emene, in Enugu, was not a clash but a systemic plot, “an act of terrorism, to inflict fear” against support for Igbo presidency. MASSOB leader, Uchenna Madu, made this position known in a statement on Monday. He alleged, “What happened in Enugu on Sunday between IPOB and combined security forces of Nigeria was not a clash or a confrontation but a systematic plot, an act of terrorism, hatched and orchestrated by the presidency to inflict fear that will demoralise the surging rise, clamour and support for Biafra and Nigerian president of Igbo extraction. “The loose venom of pathological hatred by this present administration against Ndigbo and Christians in general, on Sunday, in Enugu, further proved our earlier revelation of conspiracy and plot to push back the political emancipation of Ndigbo in Nigeria. It is a well-known fact that all pro-Biafra agitators, including MASSOB, IPOB, EPC, BNYL, BIM, MOBIN etc. are non-violent and do not use arms. It is also on record that none of these groups have indulged in any act of terrorism, violence or killings.” “Why should the Nigerian police embark on a deceitful mission of blackmailing the peaceful and non-violent members of IPOB that they were engaged in firing spree with the agents of DSS that led to the combined team of the Nigeria armed security forces to heavily descend on them in a war like scenario, during their meeting at Emene, Enugu, on Sunday, which resulted in the death of innocent and defenseless citizens of Biafra?” he asked. MASSOB claimed that the authorities fronted the DSS to provoke members of IPOB to an assault, but that the IPOB members refused to fall into their trap, adding that because it was a designed mission that must be accomplished, the DSS opened fire on defenseless citizens. “The Police, Army and Air Force immediately joined them in the brutality of IPOB members and terrorising the inhabitants of Enugu City,” it said. The statement added, “MASSOB calls the attention of Igbo political leaders, irrespective of their political party or affiliation, that they are the main target of this latest assault. It is against the political emancipation of Ndigbo in Nigeria they seem to lead; it is about 2023 general election. It is all about wounding the morale of Igbo socio-political leaders. “It is about creating fear among the Igbo populace towards 2023. Ndigbo must rise now in defence of our fatherland. Injustice to an Igbo is injustice against all Igbos irrespective of political differences. The presidency is using pro-Biafra agitators as their testing ground of wounding and inflicting injurious blow that will demoralise the chances of Igbo political emancipation in 2023. “They knew that pro-Biafra agitators are a heavy factor to be reckoned with in 2023 towards Igbo political emancipation. MASSOB reiterates its earlier resolved decision that no amount of treachery and subtle clampdown, attacks, killings, arrest, mesmerisation, prosecution by the Nigerian state, will deter us from the Biafra actualisation and restoration struggle.” 