THE African Democratic Congress, on Friday, condemned what it described as a brutal attack on its members in the Ondo West Local Government Areas of the state. The attack, which the party said was by members of the All Progressives Congress, occured during its rally on Friday. A statement by the Governorship Candidate of the party in the state, Dapo Adelegan, said ADC
party leaders were deeply concerned about the repeated attacks on the electorate in the week of the Local Government Chairman and Counsellors election. He said, “Similar attack happened in Idanre two days ago in this context of fear and violence which led to some lives being lost. “We condemn in the strongest possible terms this vicious attack on the electorate at this critical time in Ondo State. It is against humanity to deny people from expressing their rights to promote their party and preferred candidate for an office. This attack on Ondo State electorate, no matter which party they belong, is highly unacceptable under any circumstances.” Adelegan, therefore, appealed to leaders of all contesting parties in Ondo State to call their members to order and allow peace to reign. He said, “I also appeal to the Executive Governor Akeredolu as the Chief Security Officer of our State, to ensure the reign of peace and tranquillity at this period. “We commend our Honourable Member of the House of Representatives,  Abiola Makinde, for insisting on no retaliation from our members despite being attacked himself. “The African Democratic Congress offers its deepest condolences to all the families and communities affected by these senseless acts and calls for greater effort to protect citizens and electorate for the Chairman and counsellor election process tomorrow and the upcoming Governorship election in October.” The Point had reported that no fewer than 16 vehicles were vandalised, while many people sustained serious injuries, on Thursday evening, during a violent clash between supporters of the All Progressives Congress and the African Democratic Congress in Ondo State. The clash between the political parties, which eyewitnesses linked to the Council election on Saturday, occured at Yaba, in Ondo town. The crisis, which is coming on the heels of the local government election in the state, might be a pointer to what should be expected in the October 10 governorship election, an eyewitness, Akin Adewale, told The Point. 