THE Presidential Candidate of the African Democratic Congress in the 2019 election, Obadiah Mailafia, has resigned from the National institute for Policy and Strategic Studies Kuru, Jos Plateau State. Mailafia, who is a former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, resigned as a directing staff at the NIPSS. His resignation comes on the heels of investigations into his comments on the killings in Kaduna, especially the allegation that a Northern Governor is the Commander of the terrorist group, Boko Haram, among other claims, described as offensive by security agents. Mailafia’s lawyer, Yakubu Bawa, confirmed his resignation to journalists, in Jos, on Tuesday, adding also that the NIPSS had accepted his resignation. The Point had reported that Mailafia did not honour the invitation of the Nigeria Police Force for further interrogation on Monday. The Police had summoned Mailafia to appear at its Force Criminal Investigation Department Complex, Garki Area 10, on Monday, August 24, 2020 at 11am. An impeccable source, however, told The Point that Mailafia did not honour the invitation because his lawyers had already obtained an injunction, restraining the Police from further harassing him. The source, who spoke on the telephone with The Point’s correspondent, on Monday, said, “His lawyers got a court injunction that the Police should not harass him (Mailafia) again. This is because if the Department of State Services is handing a matter, the Police cannot be doing the same thing. If DSS has allowed him to go, the Police cannot arrest him again on the same matter. “It would amount to double jeopardy and it is a breach of his fundamental human rights.” On whether Mailafia honoured the invitation of the Police, the source, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, owing to the sensitivity of the issue, said, “No, he did not honour the invitation. His lawyers were able to get the court injunction this morning (Monday).” The DSS had, shortly after the video of the interview Mailafia granted Nigeria Info went viral, invited him to its Jos office. He was released the same day after about six hours of interrogation. Mailafia said in the interview that he got his information about sponsors of the terrorists from some repentant Boko Haram fighters. Mailafia had, after his initial interrogation by the DSS, told journalists that he could not disown what he said, even though the DSS came out with a strong statement condemning his utterances. 