SENATE Chief Whip and former Governor of Abia State, Senator Orji Kalu, has explained his connection with the controversial Niger Delta Development Commission contracts, saying he facilitated the projects as a private citizen before he became a Senator. The lawmaker was reacting to the Minister of Niger Delta, Godswill Akpabio’s response to the directive by the House of Representatives that he must name the lawmakers he said had benefitted from the NDDC contracts and also give the details of the said contracts. Kalu said his name was mentioned amongst others because he had written the NDDC in 2016, on his letter headed paper, asking the Commission to save roads in Abia, but added that the issues at NDDC were not around jobs executed but around missing funds. The former Governor disclosed this in a statement signed by Barrister Emeka Nwala of the Office of the Senate Chief Whip, claiming that the NDDC had not paid the contractors who handled the projects he facilitated. “It is his civic responsibility to support the communities and I am very confident he will oblige our future requests especially in areas of good roads,” Kalu noted. He said, “I was governor of Abia State between 1999-2007 and never held any public office until June 11, 2019, when I was sworn in as a Senator. Between 2016- 2018, during my tour to several communities; leaders and welfare unions of most communities pleaded for urgent intervention on some dilapidated roads. “I wrote to the NDDC informing the body of the conditions of these roads and the need for their attention since Abia is an NDDC State. The NDDC in their consideration which I am very grateful to award the roads to companies that duly tendered for the projects and not myself.” Kalu added, “The roads I requested for intervention as mentioned by the Honourable Minister were repairs of Ezere-Acha-Ndiokoukwu Road; Amaubiri-Eluama-Uru Ring Road, Lokpaukwu, Umuchieze; Ndi Oji Abam-Atan Road; the Okafia-Ozuitem-Bende road and Ozu-Amuru-Abam Road. “The contractors have completed and delivered these roads a long time ago except Abam-Atani road which I learnt from the contractors was slowed down due to rain but still ongoing. Meanwhile, it would interest Nigerians to know that the contractors who built these roads have not been paid any dime.” The Senate chief whip said he was concerned about the roads because he understood the economic importance of good roads. “That’s why I built several roads when I was governor. Even as a Senator, it would interest you to know that my major constituency projects are road constructions, reconstructions and rehabilitation,” he said. He added, “We have put in plans to finish 19 roads in Abia North before the end of 2021. Good roads help to drive the economy. Therefore, I believe the NDDC forensic audit should focus on the missing funds and not works done. “They should focus on paying contractors that delivered their jobs and not using my name indiscriminately to sell newspapers. The Honourable Minister, Senator Godswill Akpabio is my good old friend. We have been friends even before I became a governor.” “The Honourable Minister, Senator Godswill Akpabio is my good old friend. We have been friends even before I became a governor,” he added. 