A Not-For-Profit Organisation, Campaign for Democratic and Workers’ Rights, has called for an independent investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death of Gbadebo Richard, a 21-year-old, 300 Level student of the University of Ibadan, Oyo State. The Group wants the investigation conducted by a committee made up of elected representatives of trade unions, Ministry of Labour officials and pro-masses organisations, among others. According the group, the unfortunate death of Gbadebo could have been avoided if the working environment of the company, where it occurred, had been conducive. These positions were contained in a statement signed by the National Chairman, CDWR, Rufus Olusesan. Recall that Gbadebo Richard died on July 28, 2020, while operating a soap mixing machine on a night shift at his place of work – Henkel Nigeria Limited, producer of WOW Soap, situated in Ibadan. Olusesan said, “We also demand an independent investigation into circumstances surrounding Gbadebo Richard’s death, the culpability of the management of the company, recommend appropriate sanctions to the company’s management if found culpable, and proffer ways to better protect workers and prevent future mishaps. “The pursuit of cheap labour by the management of Henkel Nigeria Limited meant that late Gbadebo Richard was forced to operate a soap mixing machine, an aspect of work he had no training or certification to do.” He added, “This is what is obtainable in overwhelmingly most factories in Nigeria wherein workers are employed on low and precarious working conditions and are forced to carry out work they have no expertise for, including working without safety work tools and in an unsafe environment. These are responsible for deaths and injuries in many factories. “The usual practice of most factory and workplace managers and owners is to place workers on a casual, outsourcing contract employment status that lacks permanent employment status and better working conditions. Besides poor wage, workers are equally denied rights to a trade union, basic entitlements, including disengagement benefits, medical, leave allowances/bonus, and other basic allowances or entitlements.”
CDWR therefore called on the Nigeria Labour Congress and Trade Union Congress, as well as their affiliates to lead a relentless struggle against casualisation, outsourcing, contract staffing and other anti-labour practices, in order to guarantee better pay and working conditions for Nigerian workers. 