… says ‘there may be dire consequences back home’ THE Progressive Ambassadors of Nigeria has expressed shock over what it described as the ongoing harassments, emotional torture, and clear case of xenophobic attacks being meted on lawful Nigerians traders in Ghana by the host Government’s authorities over the enforcement of the Ghana Investment Promotion Act 2013. While condemning the ongoing “slave-battering” Nigerian traders are subjected to in Ghana, the ambassadors warned of dire consequences back home in Nigeria if these onslaughts were not speedily arrested. The organization charged the Economic Community of West African States to live up to its responsibilities, declaring that, with the continuous violation of ECOWAS protocol by member states without any corresponding sanctions, “it then becomes clearer that Nigeria’s continued membership of ECOWAS is a total waste of time, energy and particularly, resources.” PAN is a Pan-Nigerian Sensitisation, Advocacy and Reorientation-driven Non-Governmental body with operational spread across the 36 states of the Federation and over 20 Diaspora chapters, working closely with Federal Government through the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in promoting and protecting the rights and welfare of Nigerian citizens abroad from the citizenry standpoint, as part of her core mandates and objectives. In a statement on Monday, signed by its National Director, Media, Emmanuel Ohiomokhare, and made available to The Point, the organization said, “For purposes of clarity, a closer look at the Ghana Investment Promotion Act 2013 (865), reviewed and passed into law on 26 August 2013, in paragraph 27, bars FOREIGNERS from engaging into the following activities: the sale of goods or provision of services in a market, petty trading or hawking or selling of goods in a stall at any place; the operation of taxi or car hire services in an enterprise that has a fleet of fewer than 25 vehicles; the operation of a beauty salon or a barbershop; and the printing of recharge scratch cards for the use of subscribers of telecommunication services. “Others are the production of exercise books and other basic stationery; the retail of finished pharmaceutical products; the production, supply, and retail of sachet water; and all aspects of pool betting business and lotteries, except football pool.” Ohiomokhare added, “Furthermore in Paragraph 28 (2), a person who is not a citizen may engage in a trading enterprise (includes purchasing and selling of imported goods and services) if that person invests in the enterprise, NOT LESS THAN ONE MILLION UNITED STATES DOLLARS in cash or goods and services relevant to the investments, employ at least 20 skilled Ghanaians. There is another caveat in which the person is required to MOVE OUT OF THE DESIGNATED MARKETPLACES across the country. “This caveat literally translates that even if you met all the conditions in order to “buy and sell” financially, you must isolate yourself, probably enter the bush and develop your own market and perhaps, in event Government considers the new market location a “Designated Market Place” in the future, the occupant loses the right to remain in such place and so should move to another bush to develop. “Emphatically, while the Progressive Ambassadors of Nigeria does not have any problems with the sovereign law of the Republic of Ghana regarding foreigners, classifying Nigerians as FOREIGNERS in Ghana, being member state citizens of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), is not only a clear violation of the spirit and letter of the ECOWAS Free Movement Protocol but greatly undermines the ECOWAS Regional Integration Objectives.” The ambassadors said it was even more curious that Nigerian Traders, for almost 20 years, had been the selected victims and often political scapegoats at every election cycle in Ghana, in the implementation of this Act. They said, “Whereas, under the Mandate of ECOWAS on Free Movement, Article 2, Paragraph 2 and Article 27 on Free Movement of Persons, Right of Residence and Right of Establishment; Article 59 of the Revised Treaty of 1993 IN WHICH GHANA IS SIGNATORY, member states undertake to adopt, at national level, all measures necessary for the effective implementation of this Article. Specifically, with respect to the third phase RIGHT OF ESTABLISHMENT (A/SP/ 5/90), which categorically touches on access to non-salaried activities; creation and management of enterprise; and Principle of non-discrimination. “In keeping with the provision of the ECOWAS Free Movement Protocol, the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, has allowed GHANAIAN CITIZENS RESIDENT IN NIGERIA full and unfettered access into the local Nigerian markets without any form of harassments, intimidation, limitations or discrimination. They are engaging freely both in terms of retail trade and services and equally in all manner of menial, non-salaried activities in Nigeria. They enjoy Government protection and live among the Nigerian citizenry across the Country. But in Ghana, the reverse is the case.” PAN further stated, “The Progressive Ambassadors of Nigeria, while condemning the ongoing “slave-battering” Nigerian traders are subjected to in Ghana and while following these despicable actions closely, hereby warns of dire consequences back home in Nigeria if these onslaughts are not speedily arrested. Nigerian Traders in Ghana are not slaves and the Government of Ghana are free to boldly communicate with Nigerian Government for necessary actions if they no longer want Nigerians in their country. “The inconsistencies of the Ghanaian Government in the light of this escalating crisis is equally of grave concern to PAN. The Progressive Ambassadors of Nigeria notes with disappointment, the recent statement by the Government of Ghana, through the Minister of Foreign Affairs, alleging that Ghana is implementing its law because Nigeria also violated ECOWAS Protocol by closing their border. “The question is, since 2007 when Ghana started closing Nigerian traders’ shops till date, were those actions occasioned by the recent border closure? Did Nigeria violate ECOWAS Protocol by taking conscious steps to contain cross-border insurgency, check smuggling, address deliberate abuse of the provisions of ETLS -among others? “The Progressive Ambassadors of Nigeria, mindful of the deep and conscious engagements with the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, calls for more decisive and urgent actions by Federal Government towards finding a permanent solution to this recurring decimal, and to consider evacuating Nigerians in Ghana in their continued harassments and xenophobic attacks to avoid loss of lives and the attendant surprises. “There is so much tension in Ghana now. Many Nigerians living in Ghana no longer feel safe and several of those affected by recent closures are financially and economically stranded. “The Economic Community of West African States must awake to their responsibilities when the opportunities are not exhausted. Otherwise, in the continuous violation of ECOWAS Protocol by Member State without any corresponding sanctions, it then becomes clearer that Nigeria’s continued membership of ECOWAS is a total waste of time, energy and particularly, resources. “The Progressive Ambassadors of Nigeria strongly believes that a stitch in time saves nine.” 