29 Nov 2015 An 18-year-old marriage has been dissolved by a Grade ‘A’ Customary Court in Asaba, Delta State, over an incestuous relationship between mother and son. While the mother told the court that she had sex with her son in a hotel room, the son admitted same, but added that he committed the act after his mother hypnotised him with a drink. In a suit filed by the family’s breadwinner, Mr. Owefa, against his wife, Mrs. Nkulumenna Owefa, the 45-year-old woman told the court how she lured her 18-yearold son into a sex bout. She admitted before the court that she seduced her son, a part one student of one of the universities in Edo State into having sex with her in a hotel in Abagana, Anambra State, after she offered him the sum of N50,000. Earlier proceedings in the case had revealed how the woman, a product dealer at the popular Ogbeonogonogo Market, Asaba, tricked her son to accompany her to Abagana, near Onitsha, where they checked into a hotel against her initial plan of meeting with one of her business partners at her residence in Asaba. The son, who testified in the court on what transpired between him and his mother, told the Court President, Sylvester Oboh, that his mother had asked him to accompany her somewhere where she intended to buy some materials for sale. He said, “On our way to Abagana, somewhere around Toll Gate in Asaba, we were held up in a traffic jam. I was with my mother in her car and the glasses were up as the air-conditioner was on. So no one heard our conversation. My mother told me that she was going to take over me as my father had taken over my sister and I thanked her, not knowing what she was up to. “In Abagana, after a lengthy discussion with her friend, we retired into the hotel room, where my mother gave me a bottle of coke, already opened. I felt weak, and then she undressed me before putting my ‘dick’ into her private part.” The woman’s husband, Owefa, who was in court with her daughter, Adlyn, to seek the dissolution of their marriage, told the court, “All I need, Your Worship, is the dissolution of this marriage. My wife has committed the worst abomination and the only forgiveness I have for her is the dissolution of the marriage. “My son remains my son because I know he was not seduced with an ‘ordinary hand.” Oboh, the Court President, having listened to both parties, granted the dissolution of the marriage, ordering that Owefa, the father, should take custody of the two children (male and female). 