GOVERNOR David Umahi of Ebonyi State has accussed officers of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps of conniving with criminals to loot shops at the popular St Margate Umahi International market in the state. Umahi, who was worried about the rise in criminal activities in the state, expressed disappointment that officers deployed to protect the market had instead joined criminals to loot the place. He also alleged that the Civil Defence officials were behind the various armed robbery incidents being frequently witnessed in the area, saying that those involved were captured by CCTV. Umahi, while addressing the Ebonyi State Community Policing Advisory Committee and Service Chiefs, said, “The CCTV mounted at different locations in Ebonyi State captured when the robbers were negotiating with Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Officers. “The other day, we captured on camera, where armed robbers came to the International market, negotiated with Nigeria Civil Defence Officers at the gate for 45 minutes, and after that, they opened the gate wide for them to come in. We captured them in our camera.” He added, “The seat of that camera is at the Akanu Ibiam. We are still working on it and when we finish, we will be capturing all our boarders and other important locations. If you go there, you will see over 30 different televisions, all linked with different cameras all through the state. We deployed International mechanisms that was how we were able to capture them. “I hope the Commissioner of Police will do quickly and take them to court and Civil defence people will be quick to dismiss them.” The governor said there was a time in 2016 and 2017 when there was no single armed robbery and kidnapping in Ebonyi State, adding that this was done by the security agencies and the neighbourhood watch. “Let me today put the job of Commissioner for Internal Security and all Special Assistants on security on the line. If I hear one single arm robbery again, I will take your jobs. We have been noted as one of the most secured states in the whole country, and that is what can attract investors,” he declared. The State Commandant of the NSCDC, Lucy Amu, has, however, denied the governor’s allegation. She said her officers were not the ones caught in the camera. 