… Victims’ mother prevents his arrest, says ‘he’s a man of God’ Police in Lagos have arrested a pastor of a popular church, Nduka Anyanwu, for allegedly raping and impregnating two sisters, aged 17 and 13, in the Oshodi area of Lagos. Reliable sources told The Point that the pastor had impressed it on the minors that they had to remove some evil marks on their bodies, but that he could only help them by having sex with them. He reportedly impregnated the siblings simultaneously but claimed that he had plans to marry the elder sister. “Nduka, the randy pastor, has raped and impregnated two sisters, aged 17 and 13, and has said he wants the older girl to keep the pregnancy because he wants to marry her, but that the younger one should abort her own pregnancy. He had slept with them several times,” a resident, who identified himself as Clement, recounted. Further findings, however, revealed that the pastor, who claimed to be a minister of the Lord’s Chosen Church, Canaan Land branch, Oshodi, had been sexually defiling the younger girl since she was nine years old, and the older girl, since she was 16 years old. He was reportedly having his way with the minors by making them believe that the purported spiritual marks on their bodies were repelling good fortune and that he must have carnal knowledge of them before the marks would disappear. Surprisingly, however, the mother of the minors moved to prevent the perpetrator from being arrested by the police. “Drama ensued when a team of advocates from Stop The Network tried to get him arrested with the help of policemen from Makinde Police Station, Oshodi. The parents of the survivors adamantly refused the arrest of the abuser, saying he was a man of God and had already promised to marry their older daughter,” a Child Rights Advocate, Toyin Ndidi, said. The suspect was later arrested by the police who did not yield to the pressure from the parents of the victims. The Lagos Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said the suspect would be made to face the law after investigation. 