… FG’s visitation panel to be inaugurated Wednesday THE Governing Council of the University of Lagos has ratified the Senate’s election of Prof. Folasade Ogunsola as the Acting Vice-Chancellor of the institution. The ratification was done at an emergency virtual meeting of the Council on Tuesday, chaired by the Interim Chairman of the Governing Council, John Momoh. The Senate elected Ogunsola on Monday, following the Federal Government’s directive that both the Chairman of the Council, Wale Babalakin; and the ‘sacked’ VC, Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, should step aside for the visitation panel to do its work. Momoh, who is the President, University of Lagos Alumni, was appointed as the Acting Chairman of the Council, on Monday, by President Muhammadu Buhari through a letter by the Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Education, Sonny Echono. The letter titled, “Emergency Meeting of the Governing Council of University of Lagos”, with reference number FME/PS/606/C.1/III/129, directed the new Acting Chairman to convene an emergency council meeting, with a view to approving the nomination of the Acting Vice-Chancellor for the university. The letter said, “I am directed to request you to convene an emergency meeting of the governing council to consider and, if found suitable, approve the Senate nomination of the Acting Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos in line with the enabling Act. “You are to preside at the meeting in the absence of the substantive pro-chancellor/chairman of council who has had to recuse himself in line with the visitor’s directives. You are to also submit a report on the decision of the council to the visitor through the honorable minister of education immediately thereafter.” Recall that UNILAG Senate had, on Monday, voted Prof. Folasade Ogunsola as the Acting VC, making her the first woman to hold such a position in the 58-year history of the institution. Both Ogunsola and Momoh are expected to manage the activities of the institution until the Federal Government’s visitation panel, which will be inaugurated on Wednesday, completes its assignment. 