THE family of a 20-year-old fashion designer, Ayomide Taiwo, who died as a result of the brutality he suffered in the hands of a Police Officer in Osun State, has cried out for justice. Members of the family appealed to well-meaning Nigerians to intervene in the case to avoid it being swept under the carpet. Though the State Commissioner of Police, Undie Adie, has said the erring police officer, one Inspector Ago Egharevba, had been arrested and detained, the family expressed fear that he might go scot-free. The fashion designer was allegedly brutalised by Inspector Egharevba with the butt of the gun over a N50 bribe recently, at a roadblock, in Ilahun, Obokun Local Government Area of the state. Ayomide died at 08:30 am on Sunday after six days in coma at the Ladoke Akintola Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, where he was receiving treatment. It was gathered that on Tuesday, August 4, Ayomide was attacked alongside his brother, Wasiu Taiwo, in Ibokun and sustained severe injury on his head. The deceased’s elder brother, Taiwo Olaire, while speaking for the family, called on Nigerians to ensure the family gets justice in the case. He also said the family would resist all possible means by the Police to rubbish the case. Olaire said members of the family were waiting for the Police to conclude its investigation before deciding on the next move. He said, “We won’t allow the Police to bury the case; we are going to do everything within our means to ensure we get justice. We are waiting for the Police to conclude their investigation; we are following the case keenly. “We also appeal to well-meaning Nigerians, Human Rights Activists, to come to our aid and support us in getting justice in this case.” He also lamented the death of his brother, saying the hardworking lad, who recently completed his taioring apprenticeship, was wasted because of N50 bribe. Echoing similar views, Mr Segun Agboola, the deceased’s uncle, said police authority should ensure justice prevails on the matter. Agboola said the suspected killer police should be charged to a competent court and be made to face trial in accordance with the law so as to serve as deterrent to other policemen. He also sought for compensation for the parents of late Ayomide, saying the vacuum the deceased left would be very difficult to fill. However, the Nigeria Police Force has said it has dismissed Inspector Egharevba. The dismissed officer was attached to Ibokun Divisional Police Headquarters. The Commissioner of Police frowned at the misconduct of the police officer and condemned, in totality, the grievous assault meted out on the innocent man. In a statement signed by the Public Relations Officers in the state, Yemisi Opalola, the Commissioner of Police said the dismissed police officer had passed through force disciplinary procedures of orderly room trial and would be subsequently charged to court. He said, “The Commissioner of Police has identified, arrested and detained the erring Policeman. The defaulter has passed through force disciplinary procedures of orderly room trial, dismissed and he will be subsequently charged to court. “The Commissioner of Police wishes to state clearly that the command under his watch will not tolerate any act of indiscipline, brutality, unprofessional behavior and incivility to members of the public. “While being conscious of human rights and importance of members of the public in the fight against crimes and in the spirit of community policing, he urges the good people of the state to continue to cooperate and collaborate with the state Command as he assures justice and fairness in the matter while using the same medium to condole with the family of the victim.” 