LEBANESE Prime Minister Hassan Diab was expected to announce his government’s resignation on Monday amid popular outrage over the deadly Beirut port explosion that has reignited angry street protests. The under-fire cabinet, struggling to weather the political storm, met amid widespread demands for an end to an entrenched political system widely seen as inept, corrupt and dominated by sectarian interests and family dynasties. During the session, “most of the ministers called on the government to step down,” Sport and Youth Minister Vartine Ohanian told AFP, saying she backed such calls. Diab, who was set to address the nation on television at 1630 GMT, “is heading towards resignation,” said another minister who asked not to be named after four of his colleagues had already stepped down. According to the health ministry, at least 160 people were killed in Lebanon’s worst peacetime disaster, 6,000 were wounded and about 20 remained missing. Six days after the enormous chemical blast which wreaked destruction across swathes of the capital and was felt as far away as the island of Cyprus, residents and volunteers were still clearing the debris off the streets. International rescue teams with sniffer dogs and specialised equipment remained at work at the disaster’s charred “ground zero”, where the search was now for bodies and not survivors. The Lebanese want heads to roll over the tragedy and are asking how a massive stockpile of volatile ammonium nitrate, a compound used primarily as a fertiliser, was left unsecured at the port for years. The country’s top officials have promised a swift and thorough investigation — but they have stopped short of agreeing to an independent probe led by foreign experts as demanded by the protesters. . – Resignations – Four ministers had already decided they could no longer stand with a government that has shown little willingness to take the blame or to put state resources at the service of the victims. The contagion looked set to spread, leaving Diab, who only accepted the top job in December last year, no option but to follow suit and agree to a full cabinet resignation. At least nine lawmakers have also announced they would quit in protest, as have two senior members of the Beirut municipality. The August 4 blast, which drew comparisons with the Hiroshima atom bomb, was so enormous that it altered the shape of not only Beirut’s skyline but even its Mediterranean coastline. But it remained to be seen whether the disaster will also have a lasting impact on Lebanon’s entrenched post-war political culture, whose masters are widely seen as being primarily bent on self-preservation and buck-passing. During a second evening of protests on Sunday, the rage sparked by the explosion that disfigured Beirut and scarred so many of its residents had not relented, and violent street clashes flared again. “The resignation of ministers is not enough. Those who are responsible for the explosion should be held accountable,” said Michelle, a demonstrator in her early twenties. She carried a poster of a friend who was killed in the blast, inscribed with the message “My government killed me”. – ‘Direct’ aid – Demonstrators lamented that security forces were using tear gas against blast victims instead of helping them clean their wrecked homes and find a roof. “We need an international investigation and trial to tell us who killed our friends and all the other victims, because they might try to conceal the truth,” said Michelle. French President Emmanuel Macron supported the idea when he visited last Thursday, but his calls for reform and transparency appeared to receive less attention among Lebanese officialdom than his offer to raise aid money. An online emergency support conference Macron chaired Sunday, attended virtually by a slew of world leaders including US President Donald Trump, came up with pledges for more than 250 million euros. Macron, who was given a hero’s welcome when he trudged through the rubble of ravaged old Beirut to meet distressed residents, stressed the aid would go “directly” to the population. – AFP 