AS businesses struggle to stage a comeback after the coronavirus pandemic induced lull, 15 more artisans in Ogun and Kwara states have at the weekend joined the millionaires club, courtesy of Dangote Cement Bag of Goodies Promo Season 2. The winners, who won N1m each, are mostly artisans and building material dealers whose businesses have suffered the down side in the wake of the pandemic. They were full of praises for the President of the Group, Aliko Dangote, saying the money would go a long way in resuscitating their businesses, according to a statement on Monday. This brings to 80 the number of people who have so far won N1m in the “Spell Dangote and Win a Million Naira” promo designed specifically to help Dangote Cement consumers to quickly overcome the effects of COVID-19. The Company had, during the launch of the promo last month, explained that the one million naira wining prize was a form of palliative in which 1000 people would benefit. The company’s Director of Marketing, Funmi Sanni, explained that the promo was deliberately designed to cushion the negative effects and impact of COVID-19 on businesses and families. In Ilorin and Abeokuta, the winners took to dancing as they received credit alert shortly after being presented with their symbolic cheques. Sanni expressed appreciation to the winners for their loyalty to the Dangote Cement brand. She stated that more than 80 people had won a million naira and that the management expected many more in the coming weeks across the nation because 1000 people had been earmarked to win N1m each. According to her, the Bag of Goodies Season 2 is the biggest promo ever in the country because at the end of the promo, a total sum of N1 billion cash would have been won by the consumers of Dangote Cement across the country. In his own remark, Yemi Fajobi, National Sales Director, Dangote Cement, described the promo as a reflection of Aliko Dangote’s generosity and his desire to enrich as many people as he could. He said, “Despite effects of COVID-19 on global economy, Dangote cement company has decided to go ahead with the Bag of Goodies promo in order to give back to the People. We all know what is happening globally, this promo is like a palliative to our teeming customers who have suffered economic hardship, occasioned by the pandemic. “We feel that despite the pandemic, it is worthy to put a smile on the face of our teeming customers across the country. People have been forced to stay at home, businesses have been forced to shut down. Nothing could assuage the peoples feeling other than money. This is why the promo is running at this time.” 