GOVERNOR Willie Obiano of Anambra State has vowed to apprehend the killers of his Senior Special Assistant on Security, Azubuike Ekwegbalu. The Governor said Azubuike’s death was a serious setback to the fight against cultism and crime in general, vowing that the state government would ensure that the perpetrators of the evil act did not go unpunished. A statement, on Monday, by the Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, C-Don Adinuba, said the late Ekwegbalu had devoted his energy and professional intelligence to monitoring cults in various parts of the state. The statement, a copy of which was obtianed by The Point’s correspondent, described the late governor’s aide as “a thorough, quiet, unassuming, energetic and dedicated security official whose forte was intelligence gathering.” It said, “He had in the last few months devoted his infectious energy and acute professional intelligence to monitoring cults in various parts of the state, following an increase in the menace of young cult members in educational institutions and elsewhere. The results have been outstanding. “Mr Ekwegbalu’s tragic death is a serious setback to the fight against the cult menace and crime generally in the state. The Anambra State Government, working with the security agencies, will do everything in its power to apprehend those responsible for Mr Ekwegbalu’s death, as we have successfully done over the years in similar deaths.” Unknown assailants had on Sunday stormed the residence of Ekwegbalu, leaving him dead after allegedly stabbing him with a kitchen knife. The incident reportedly occurred in the early hours of Sunday at his residence at the Commissioners’ Quarters, Awka, a high brow area for government officials. Confirming the incident in a statement, the spokesman for the Police Command in the state, SP Haruna Mohammed, said one suspect, who was seen in the premises had been arrested. He said, “On August 9, 2020, about 1:30 am, there was a report of alleged murder of one Azuibuike Ekwegbalu, aged 43 years, native of Ogbunike in Oyi LGA but resident at the Commissioners quarters, Awka. “Following the report, Police detectives attached to ‘B’ Division Awka, led by the DPO, CSP Emma Ogbuanya, visited the scene and rushed the victim, who was found in a pool of blood to COOUTH Awka, for medical attention. “He was certified dead by the medical doctor on arrival while his corpse was deposited at the hospital mortuary for autopsy.” Mohammed said a careful observation on the deceased’s body revealed stab wounds while a blood-stained Kitchen knife was also recovered as an exhibit at the scene. 