THE Ogun State Police Command, on Monday, paraded a pastor, one Prophet Ebenezer Ajigbotoluwa, of the Lord of Israel Church, Olomore, Abeokuta, for allegedly swindling a woman, Temitope Obanisola, of N2m and impregnating her two teenage daughters. The Commissioner of Police in the state, Edward Ajogun, who paraded the pastor at the Command Headquarters, Eleweran, said the Prophet asked the woman to bring her entire family of six to the church to shield them from being afflicted by an unknown illness. He said while they took shelter in the church, the prophet began to have carnal knowledge of her two teenage girls and impregnated them in the process. But the 57-year-old prophet Ebenezer only admitted impregnating one of the sisters, saying he had the intention of marrying her legally. He, however, pleaded for forgiveness, saying, if given a second chance by Nigerians, the Government and the Christian community, he would embark on prison evangelism. He appealed to Nigerians not use his predicament and error to cast aspersions on other men of God, saying every religious leader, past or present, faced temptations from the devil. He said, “I say apology to God Almighty for finding myself in this position, if I knew it would happen, I wouldn’t have agreed to marry the sister. “Then, for the people who have been giving all kinds of reactions that should we say there are Christian leaders? Do we say there are clergymen? There are saints, there are clergymen. I was like that before. People should not condemn the House of God; they should not condemn the work of God.” The embattled pastor added, “I am crying because of God, because the name of God should not be put to shame, especially when you’re talking of white garment church, likewise Pentecostal church of God. Yes, we read the same Bible. For my own sake, nobody should desert them or abuse them or say that there is no minister of God, or say that they will not worship God. No. I am only a sinner, somebody else might not be. “If I can have favour from God and from Nigerians, and from the government. Then, it is my promise that I will turn a new leaf and I will be preaching to prisoners. I will be going to cells to preach to them. That is the kind of ministry I want to establish, to change people if God can give me the grace.” The commissioner also paraded one ‘Pastor’ Isaac Adetunji for indecent assault on a 35-year-old man, Seyi Azeez, who he asked to eat a concoction prepared with eggs and other items, causing the victim to sleep off overnight in the suspect’s home at Onipanu area of Ota, Ogun State. While Seyi was asleep, the pastor was said to have caused him to masturbate after which he allegedly harvested his semen unhindered. This, he alleged, made the victim to lose his erection. The police boss added that the victim was taken to the hospital but medical report revealed that his manhood was not functioning again. However, 37 other suspects, including a rapist, eight robbers, a fake lawyer, car snatcher, kidnapper and two land grabbers, terrorising the Ogijo area of Ogun State, were also paraded by the police commissioner. Ajogun said they were arrested at different areas of the state between July and August. He said assorted charms, locally-made double barrel pistols, live cartridges, among others, were recovered from them. Ajogun advised criminals in the state to submit their ammunitions to the Command, stating that the police had begun house-to-house search for illegal arms. He, however, assured that his leadership would hunt criminals in the state to their hideouts. 