AIR PEACE has sacked over 70 pilots and reduced staff salaries by as much as 40 per cent depending on the grade. The airline attributed its action to the devastating effect of the COVID-19 pandemic in a statement issued by its Spokesperson, Stanley Olisa, but was silent on the exact number of pilots that were disengaged. It said the decision was taken in the best interest of the company and staff, including those that had been disengaged. The airline said, “The Management of Air Peace wishes to state that it has taken a very painful but rightful decision, in the circumstances the airline has found itself as a result of the devastating effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on its operations and financial health to terminate the employment of some of its pilots. This decision was taken for the greater good of the company and its almost 3000 workforce, the affected pilots inclusive. “The airline cannot afford to toe the path of being unable to continue to fulfil its financial obligations to its staff, external vendors, aviation agencies, maintenance organisations, insurance companies, banks and other creditors hence the decision to restructure its entire operations with a view to surviving the times.” Some employees of the airline, who spoke to our correspondent on the condition of anonymity, disclosed to our correspondent that over 70 pilots were disengaged, adding that they had also vowed to protest what they described as an unlawful exercise. On pay cuts, the company said, “We decided to review the salaries being paid to all staff. The new salaries reflect a 0 per cent to 40 per cent cut of the former salary depending on the salary grades of every staff. “Even after the cuts, it was obvious that for us to be able to sustain our operations and survive the times, some jobs must inevitably have to go.” The airline promised the disengaged staff of a place in the company, if they so wish, when things return to normal. Recall that the pilots had, a few days ago, reportedly protested the downward review of their salaries following an unsuccessful negotiation with the management of the airline. Air Peace had however refuted reports that its pilots had embarked on strike, owing to unfavourable conditions of service. 