THE Edo State Government has assured the state’s business community of friendly policies to sustain the inflow of investments amid the coronavirus pandemic, in line with Governor Godwin Obaseki’s Making Edo Great Again (MADE) manifesto. Head, Edo State Investment Promotion Office, Kelvin Uwaibi, said this during a Breakfast Meeting with the Edo International Business Forum and members of the Edo Business Community, in Benin City, the Edo State capital. He assured the business community of the Obaseki-led administration’s commitment to engaging and partnering with stakeholders to implement investment-friendly policies and guarantee the security of lives and property in the state. “As a responsive government, we are not resting on our oars and we will continue to provide necessary tools and support that would translate into greater opportunities with the overall aim of ensuring sustainable economic and social development of the state,” he said. He urged the business community to continue believing in the administration and take advantage of the various policies within the framework of the governor’s progressive agenda. While restating his confidence that the business community would sustain its contributions towards creating an environment that is safe and secure for business and leisure, he promised that Governor Obaseki would continue partnering with the business community to develop the economy of the state. Speaking earlier, President of the Edo International Business Forum, Mrs. Florence Omere, commended the state government for its efforts at stimulating the growth of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in the state and making Edo State a priority and preferred destination for foreign investors. She noted that despite the COVID-19 pandemic, the Edo State Investment Promotion Office still worked actively to interface and allay the fears expressed by actors in the business community. “I must commend the Edo State Investment Promotion Office. I recall we received messages of hope when the lockdown was tough. We also attended virtual meetings organised by ESIPO. This goes to show the commitment of the present administration in ensuring that businesses in the state prosper,” she said. 