… Lists nine priority areas PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari, on Tuesday, said his administration had identified nine priority areas to guide its policy directions before 2023. The President told diplomats from eight countries that the nine priority mandates were already reflected in the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan, a medium-term initiative pioneered by the government to restore economic growth and development, while leveraging the resourcefulness and resilience of citizens. He spoke when he received Letters of Credence from Ambassadors/High Commissioners of the eight countries at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. In a statement issued by the President’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, Buhari was quoted as saying, “In our efforts to achieve a realistic domestic and foreign policy, as well as national development, we have identified the following nine priority areas to guide our policy directions over the next few years. “Build a thriving and sustainable economy; Enhance social inclusion and reduce poverty; Enlarge agricultural output for food security and export; Attain energy sufficiency in power and petroleum products and expand transport and other infrastructural development. “Expand business growth, entrepreneurship and industrialisation; Expand access to quality education, affordable healthcare and productivity of Nigerians; Build a system to fight corruption, improve governance and create social cohesion; and improve security for all.’’ The Ambassadors/High Commissioners who presented their Letters of Credence are: Hocine Latil of Algeria; Luong Quoc Thinh of Vietnam; Dr Benson Alfred Bana of Tanzania; Traore Kalilou of Cote d’Ivoire; Abakar Saleh Chahaimi of Chad; Jamal Mohammed Barrow of Somalia; Brahim Salem El Mami Buseif of Sahrawi Arab Republic; and Mohammed Alibak of Iran. Describing Nigerians as the “nation’s most prized assets’’, Buhari urged the diplomats to use the opportunity of working in the country to improve relations with their governments and people. He said, “I have no doubt that you might have prior and in-depth knowledge of Nigeria’s huge potential which you will hopefully see for yourselves. “I, therefore, urge you to go around the country, see things for yourselves and report to your home governments. This is important as you all are representatives of both your sending and host states.’’ The President said Nigeria would remain steadfast in pursuing deeper and valuable relations among nations, without discrimination. He stated, “Nigeria strongly supports joint action to ensure a democratic and fair world order based on strict respect for the norms of international law, the United Nations Charter, recognition of the unquestionable value of cultural diversity, national sovereignty, and the right of all countries to decide their future freely, without external pressure. “Nigeria does not divide its partners into big and small; we value and respect every country, and with every country, we are ready to pursue dialogue, as well as build cooperation on the basis of equality and constructive mutual respect. “These include our cooperation in strengthening regional, continental and global peace and security, resolving complex issues, settling conflicts, as well as addressing dangerous threats to mankind, among which include terrorism, proliferation of small arms and light weapons, human trafficking, cybercrimes, poverty, communicable diseases and epidemics.’’ Speaking on behalf of the Ambassadors/High Commissioners, the Ambassador of Algeria to Nigeria said each of the diplomats brought greetings and agenda from their home governments, but the bottom line remained to enhance cooperation and seek advancement in mutual areas of interest. “On behalf of my colleagues, we thank you for receiving us. We know that your schedule is tight. As the giant of Africa, you are always focused on resolving conflicts in the continent, while taking care of your domestic issues as well,” he said. 