THE Federal Government has advocated the use of technical and vocational training to address the problem of unemployment in the country. The Minister of State for Industry, Trade and Investment, Mariam Katagum, said this on Thursday in Abuja at the kick-off ceremony of the Industrial Training Fund vocational training programme. Nigeria’s unemployment rate, as of the second quarter of this year, stood at 27.1 per cent. Analysis of the Labour Statistics Report showed that the number of Nigerians that were unemployed rose by 258.9 per cent from 6.063 million as of the second quarter of 2015 to 21.765 million at the end of June this year. When considered by educational status, those whose status were below primary school level reported the highest rate of unemployment with 46.2 per cent, followed by those with first degree/Higher National Diploma, at 40.9 per cent. Further  analysis  showed that those with Vocational/Commercial qualifications reported the lowest rate of unemployment, of 17.9 per cent during the reference period. Under the age-groupings, the highest rate of unemployment was recorded among the 15-24-year age-group with 40.8 per cent, followed by those aged 25-34, with 30.7 per cent. Altogether, the youth population recorded an underemployment rate of 35.4 per cent. But speaking at the event, the minister described the huge unemployment rate in the country as worrisome. Katagum said, given the enormity of the challenges posed by unemployment, collaborative efforts among agencies of goverment and private organisations were imperative if the country must successfully tackle the challenge of poverty and job creation. She, therefore appealed to other critical stakeholders to follow the example of the ITF and the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board through concerted synergy as one partner could not do it alone. The minister urged the participants at the training  to seize the rare opportunity to use the skills they were going to acquire, to not only put food on their table, but also contribute meaningfully to growing the Nigerian economy. The Director-General, ITF, Joseph Ari, said it was common consensus that the only way to effectively diversify and indeed grow any economy was through skills acquisition. He said that the high unemployment rate in Nigeria among other issues had impacted negatively on the economy, thus jeopardising national security and socio-economic development. The ITF DG said, “Given the enormity of the challenges posed by unemployment, collaborative efforts amongst Agencies and organisations become imperative if we are to successfully tackle the challenge of poverty and job creation. “The high unemployment rate in Nigeria among other issues has impacted negatively on our economy thus jeopardising national security and socio-economic development. “The absence of matching skills with industry needs has also heightened the rate of unemployment, especially among youths.” In order to bridge the skills gap in the country, Ari said the ITF in collaboration with the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation conducted survey in six priority areas of the economy. The sectors are agro-allied, construction, oil and gas, metal and solid minerals, light manufacturing and services. 