THE Nigerian Military has deployed Special Operations Forces to combat the disturbing Southern Kaduna killings. The news of the deployment coincides with the alarm raised a few days ago by the Presidential Candidate of the African Democratic Congress,Obadiah Mailafia, accusing the Federal Government of complicity in the crisis, and alleging that a Northern Nigerian governor is the Commander of Boko Haram. The Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Maj. Gen. John Enenche, during a weekly media interaction with Defence correspondents, said Special Operations Forces had been deployed to the Joint Operations Area, covering the various flash points. He said, “In a bid to curb the recent attacks and isolated killings in Southern Kaduna, troops of Operation Safe Haven have continued to intensify efforts aimed at securing the lives and property in the general area. “Particularly, Special Operations Forces have been deployed to the Joint Operations Area, covering the various flash points. This move is expected to achieve the desired result with the provision of credible and actionable intelligence specifically from primary sources.” He noted that the locals were requested to cooperate with the security agencies by availing them with the required information that would be useful to the collective objective of taking out the criminals from the area. He said, “For the week under review, the overall outlook shows enhanced effort by the security forces with a commensurate degraded action on the part of the enemies of the nation. “This positive signal is connected to the directive by the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies tackling the various security challenges in the country to do more.” Enenche said in the North West, troops of Operation Hadarin Daji had continued the aggressive clearance operations in the entire zone. He said, “For the past one month, we have witnessed a downward trend in the activities of armed bandits and cattle rustlers in the general areas of Katsina, Kebbi, Zamfara, Sokoto and adjoining states. “Most of these criminal elements have been decimated. Gradually, there is restoration of human activities in the zone. Farmers have returned to their farms while other economic activities have picked up across the zone. The troops have continued to dominate the general area with clearance patrols, aggressive fighting patrols and confidence-building patrols.” He added, “The High Military Command congratulates the troops for the feat recorded and encourages the good people of the zone to continue to provide credible information to the troops. “Troops of Operation Delta Safe have intensified the fight against crude oil theft, pipeline vandalism and illegal oil bunkering in the zone with significant successes.” 