THE Edo State Governor and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the September 19, 2020 governorship election in the state, Godwin Obaseki, has said the ward-to-ward campaign embarked upon by his party is designed for assessing the needs of Edo people at the community level, in order to bring more impactful projects closer to the people. The governor reassured that his administration would continue to put the interest of the people first in his development plan for the state. Obaseki, who spoke to party faithful during his reelection campaign rally in Auchi, Etsako West Local Government Area, said the ward campaign provided opportunity to ascertain the impact of government’s projects in the last three years in the various wards of the state. “I will give you good roads, schools, hospitals, clean water and steady electricity, among others. I came to ascertain how much of these things you need. We are going from ward-to-ward to meet with our people and see for ourselves the things that we have done and those that we need to do, to develop the communities,” the governor said. On his part, the PDP leader in Auchi Ward 4, Yusuf Busari, said the people had decided to reward the governor with their votes, for his performance. He said, “We are going to honour you with our votes. Your developmental strides across the state are the reasons behind this unshaken commitment. “We commend you for your youth empowerment programmes, construction of roads, the thousands of jobs you have created for our youths and the renovation of the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium to international standard, among others. We will forever remember you for your good legacies.” Receiving thousands of defectors from the All Progressives Congress to the PDP, the Chairman, Edo PDP Governorship Campaign Council, Dan Orbih, noted, “Governor Godwin Obaseki is a good man; the people of the state love him and are going to vote for him in the forthcoming gubernatorial election. “He has constructed roads over night; that is why the good people of the state named him ‘wake and see governor’. Obaseki is ready to liberate our people from godfatherism and intimidation. He is ready to work and move the state forward.” 