A governorship aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ondo State, Banji Okunomo, and his supporters across the state, have distanced themselves from the campaign activities of the PDP candidate, Eyitayo Jegede. The decision of the PDP aspirant to shun Jegede’s activities is mainly as a result of what some critics have described as the unpopular choice of a House of Representatives member, Gboluga Ikengboju, as Jegede’s running mate after weeks of deliberation. The PDP members faulted what they termed anti-people and undemocratic tendencies of the PDP candidate. In this regard, after an enlarged meeting in Okitipupa, the Okunomo Campaign Organisation in a communique, on Thursday, directed all its members to refrain from joining forces with all political activities relating to Jegede and his gubernatorial ambition till further notice. The PDP members also passed a vote of no confidence on Jegede, accusing him of manipulating the PDP structure to favour his political camp at the expense of others. They said, “The BBO executive session views with emphatic disapproval and absolute sense of rejection the undemocratic and unpopular dimension in which Barr. Eyitayo Jegede chose to foist the nomination of Hon. Ikengboju Gboluga a serving Member of the House of Representatives representing Okitipupa/Irele Federal Constituency on the PDP as his running mate and Deputy Governorship Candidate in stiff defiance to all wise counsels to the contrary, portraying him as a rigidly conservative person that will always override superior majority view. “The previous recommendation by the PDP leadership, including the Elders Council and party leaders to the effect that Mr. Eyitayo should drop the idea of Mr. Ikengboju Gboluga and pick from the list of names of those the party found most suitable to foster the bond of unison and reconciliation needed to guarantee landslide victory for the PDP in the forthcoming gubernatorial duel scheduled for 10th October, 2020, was utterly jettisoned by the Party’s flag bearer. ”The BBO Campaign Organisation hereby wishes to profoundly affirm our decision to remain resolute against anti-people and undemocratic tendencies threatening the core values of our party with heavy cost on the winning chances of the PDP in Ondo State in respect of the coming Governorship election.” 