THE Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria has been granted powers by the Federal High Court, presided over by Hon. Justice A.I. Chikere, to take over the assets of Northrich Technologies Limited. The court, in a Suit No. FHC/ABJ/CS/258/14 – AMCON V. Northrich Technologies Limited, ordered AMCON and its appointed law firm to take over Plot 5, Zaria Road, Damba Gusau Local Government Area, Zamfara State, measuring about 11 hectares with C of O number GS/G/1443, and SOK. 1501, residential plot on Shinkafi Road Sokoto State, belonging to the defendants. The court also granted an order freezing every account belonging to the company and its promoters as well as other equipment purchased with the loan facility. Northrich Technologies Limited is promoted by Alhaji Mukhtar Aliyu Shinkafi, and Alhaji Ahmad Aliyu Shinkafi, among other directors of the company, whose total indebtedness to AMCON is about N500m AMCON, as directed by the court, has effectively taken over all the assets through its appointed law firm. The case of Northrich Technologies Limited and its promoters has been interminable because the loan was purchased by AMCON during the first phase of Eligible Bank Assets purchases from Intercontinental Bank (now Access Bank) since 2011. Northrich Technologies and the Shinkafis had been offered various repayment proposals by AMCON since April 2012 but have been unable to meet any of the terms. Having shown a clear inability to settle its indebtedness, the Corporation in a statement on Wednesday said it had no other option but to seek justice in court. With the renewed AMCON Act, which was signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari, giving additional powers to go after some recalcitrant obligors, the Corporation said there would be no hiding place for these individuals and organisations that had contributed to the destruction of the Nigerian economy by borrowing a number of banks to extinction. Tbe government agency has been in rapid response with its enforcement activities across the country irrespective of the challenges created by the ravaging coronavirus pandemic all of which are backed by strong judicial support. 