… Leave Okowa out of your violence – Okowa Aide THE All Progressives Congress has accused the ruling Peoples Democratic Party and the Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, of importing arms and persons believed to be thugs into the state. The PDP further alleged that the thugs were aided by Okowa into the state with the intention to scuttle the election processes in the state for fear of the party’s candidate, Obaseki, losing the election slated for September 19. Addressing a press conference, Acting Chairman of the APC, Col David Imuse (retd), noted that Obaseki’s alleged desperate schemes and deployment of do-or-die tactics in seeking for a second term in office alongside his deputy, Philip Shaibu, was the reason for the tension. He also berated the Delta State Governor, who he accused of allegedly bringing thugs into the state in order to cause mayhem during the election. “In the past days, we have seen and experienced a dangerous build-up of firearms and violence in Edo State by Mr. Godwin Obaseki who no longer needs a diviner to tell him that he has been rejected by the people,” he said. Imuse further pointed out that Okowa, who he alleged shot his way to a contrived victory in Delta State, had begun to lend his hand to Godwin Obaseki, with the supply of thugs and gangs charged with the mission of unleashing violence and rigging the election. He said, “Acting under the marching orders of the tax-collecting leadership of their umbrella party, they are executing a do-or-die approach where they must either forcefully impose themselves on the people of Edo State for another term or burn the whole state to the ground, making a sorry scene and an ungovernable entity. “This manifested on Wednesday, August 19, in Igueben local government area when Okowa, suspiciously attended a single ward political event allegedly with an army of thugs with the objective of contributing to their militarisation of the state and to spread panic and intimidate voters.” He added that, during the confusion, an innocent bystander, Mr. Ernest Otoide, was shot, which caused him to be hospitalised and in the process brought avoidable sadness and pain to his family. Imuse disclosed that some suspects with dangerous firearms had been arrested and transferred from Area Command, Irrua, to the police command headquarters in Benin City, just as he wondered if the unfolding violent crimes must continue to prevail because of non-negotiability of the governor’s second term bid. However, reacting, Chief Press Secretary to Okowa, Olisa Ifeajika, said, “I don’t know when Delta became more violent than Edo. ”When PDP governors paid a courtesy visit to the Oba of Benin and violence broke out after they left, was it Okowa that was responsible? We should be thankful that our governor was not harmed. ”The governor has visited Edo State many times and there was no violence. Okowa as a person has not been known for violence and since he has been contesting elections, he has not been associated with violence. “Everybody knows Okowa as a peaceful person. The violence is in Edo and will remain in Edo. Before now, in the build up to the election, Edo has been in the news for violence. So, what happened in Igueben is part of that violence. They should leave Okowa alone.” Also, reacting, the State Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Chris Nehikhare, said it was obvious that Imuse lacked content “so they now sit down and concoct stories.” “The allegations are baseless and lack foundation. We are the ones that should be complaining because of their inclination to fraud and violence. All we keep saying‎ is that they are trying to create situation of anarchy and chaos to force a postponement of the election,” he said. 