ALL the industrial unions of the University of Lagos, operating under the aegis of Joint Staff Union, have condemned what they termed illegal removal of the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe. The Academic Staff Union of Universities, Senior Staff Association Of Nigerian Universities, Non-Academic Staff Union of Universities, and National Association of Academic Technologists, all said they were surprised that a Council constituted by law, and chaired by a Senior Advocate of Nigeria could “most lawlessly” violate the laws of the University in the purported removal of the VC. The unions spoke at a joint meeting, held on Thursday, August 13, 2020, noting that the action of the Governing Council was illegal, vexatious and vindictive. In a statement at the end of the meeting, jointly signed by the four chairmen of the Unions – Dele Ashiru (ASUU); Olusola Sowunmi (SSANU); Ajibade Kehinde (NASU); and Salyman Lawal (NAAT) – the unions said, “According to the University of Lagos Act, laws and practice of other universities, not only in Nigeria but in other civilised climes, a principal officer cannot just be removed on flimsy excuses without regard to laws. “The four unions of all workers in the University of Lagos hereby declare the removal of the vice-chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, as illegal on the following grounds that there was “no notification to the Vice-Chancellor on the allegations against him; and no investigation panel was set up to investigate the allegations against the Vice-Chancellor in line with the university Act.” The unions also said there was no fair hearing; no formal report from any investigative committee; and no consideration of report of an Investigative Committee since none was set-up as provided for in the law.” The unions stressed, “Against the foregoing background, the Staff Unions of University of Lagos, hereby condemn in its totality the purported removal of our Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe as illegal, vexatious, unjust, vindictive and tantamount to jungle justice. “We therefore affirm our absolute confidence in the leadership of Prof. Toyin Ogundipe as the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos. Therefore, the position of the Vice-Chancellor of the University is not vacant.” The Unions at the meeting called on the Minister of Education and the Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission to stop the charade and lawlessness being perpetrated by the Dr. Wale Babalakin-led University of Lagos Council, given its potentials for causing disharmony and industrial instability in the University of Lagos. “We take this opportunity to call on all our members and other stakeholders in the university to continue to maintain peace and go about their normal businesses with the assurances that the Federal Government of Nigeria will stop this illegality in the interest of the rule of law and justice without further delay,” they said. 