FOLLOWING widespread criticisms, Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State, on Monday, cancelled the N25,000 COVID-19 test fee for students resuming to write the West African Senior School Certificate Examinations. The Governor said, after reviewing the developments, he had directed government laboratories to do the tests for SSS 3 returning students at no cost, adding that all those who had already paid should be refunded. He disclosed this in a statement titled, “Ogun Makes COVID-19 Test Free For All Returning SS3 Boarding Students.” The statement said, “After reviewing these developments, I have today immediately directed that the Government Laboratories carry out tests for all returning SS3 boarding students at no cost. I have also directed that all those who have paid for tests be refunded. “The health of our children remains our utmost priority. However, in view of the total number of boarding students to be tested (5,340private and 500 public), and bearing in mind the limitation of our installed testing capacity of 500 tests per day, it may not be feasible for all boarding students to get tested and get their results prior to resumption or even exams which commence on 17th August 2020.” Consequently, he said, the State Government had stepped down the COVID-19 test as a mandatory requirement for returning students in exit classes. The governor said, “We, therefore, enjoin Private School owners to exercise their duty of care to their pupils. The admittance of students into boarding house in private secondary schools will be at the discretion of the management and the Parents Teachers Association of such private schools. “Ogun State Government recommends that students who do not have to stay in the boarding house should attend school from home, especially those with underlying health conditions.” He added, “I have also directed the provision of face masks to all students in both private and public schools. The inconvenience and confusion experienced yesterday is highly regrettable and my sincere apologies to the parents and students so affected. “The quality and standard of education and well being of our children are issues that are very dear to my heart. I appreciate the cooperation, support, resilience and understanding of all the people of Ogun State towards flattening the curve of COVID-19 in Ogun State. It is my prayer that this phase will end soonest.” 