18 Dec 2015 A 16-year-old garden-egg hawker, simply identified as Amaka, in Asaba, Delta State, has narrated how she wrecked the 26-year-old marriage ofa politician in the city. Amaka revealed this at a guest house on Infant Jesus Road, Asaba after being caught on an escapade with the top politician, said to be a Senior Special Assistant to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State. The teenager reportedly revealed to an angry crowd at the guest house how the relationship with the politician started and how much she was making from the romantic deal. She confessed, “From my residence at the Cable Point, Asaba, I was hawking garden-eggs to other parts of the capital city when I ran into my sugar daddy who solicited me. “He (politician) told me he loved me and we both went into the guest house after he gave me N10,000 where he made love to me. I sell good and well washed garden-eggs with groundnuts.” She added that she dropped out of secondary school owing to financial constraints. It was also gathered that the politician, a father of six children, sent his wife packing in September 2015, six months after his relationship with the garden-egg hawker started. A few weeks after, two of his children reportedly died in mysterious circumstances. Speaking to our eyewitness, the wife of the politician, whosimply identified herself as Roseline, said, “My husband became very crazy about the garden-egg hawker. “I got to know six months after their love affair began. Two of my children died in mysterious circumstances and my husband sent me away from my matrimonial home.” Asked how she won the heart of the politician, Amaka said, “There was nothing special I did. Rather, I used to satisfy him with all it takes for love making and most times, I caressed him very well.” Investigation, however, showed that the Abraka, Asaba residence of the politician had since Friday been deserted for unknown reasons while the hawker girl was handed over to the police at the ‘A’ Division Police Station. Some police officers, who did not want their names inprint, said the girl had been released, adding that it was just a case of sexual intercourse between a married man and a hawker. 