… ‘I know I’m stepping on very powerful toes’ PRESIDENTIAL Candidate of the African Democratic Congress in the 2019 election, Obadiah Mailafia, has reiterated his condemnation of the unresolved Kaduna killings, saying he has no apology for his stand on the unfortunate situation. Mailafia, a former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, said he had calculated his risks, as an economist, and was not afraid of the consequences of his action, noting that he was aware he had stepped on powerful toes. He spoke in an exclusive telephone interview with The Point on Thursday. “I’m an Economist; I have calculated the risk and I know that I am stepping on very powerful toes, but my concern is the killings. They must stop. We’ve had enough bloodshed in this country. Don’t people have conscience? How many times is a man going to die? And I know nobody can touch my life, nobody,” he said. Lamenting the plight of his people, Mailafia, stated, “People are dying. Are they not? Innocent people, you would agree with me. Are we saying that our lives are more important than their own? So, who will speak for them if we don’t speak up? “I have calculated everything and it is a matter of my conscience. God has spoken to me and I have decided that I must speak for these innocent people. They don’t deserve to die like chickens and goats. What kind of country is this that allows that kind of thing to happen? When will it stop? It is not even for my own people alone. It is the whole country I am concerned about. “I don’t know what the motivation of these people are; I don’t know what they are looking for; may be they are even looking for scarifice for some demons, I don’t know. All I’m telling them is, please, these killings must stop. We’ve had enough of it, honestly. The only time my conscience will rest is when I see that the killings have stopped.” When asked if he was not afraid of the consequences of his unyielding position, Mailafia said, “Life is a risk. I’m not afraid because my God is with me. The only time I will be afraid is if I know that God is not with me; or if I know that I’m just being a hypocrite or looking for something. I’m not looking for anything. “God has laid it in my heart that these killings are evil and they must be stopped. All of us can stop it. Government can stop it. If you mobilise all Nigerians, we can stop these killings. If we are all afraid, let them continue killing us until one day, this country burns down… “I have taken my stand. It’s a moral, conscience issue. The only time they will have peace with me is when the killings stop. That is my stand. I have taken my stand with no apology. The only day I would apologise is if God tells me that all those innocent people that are dying are not His children and they don’t mean anything.” Mailafia had been invited by the Department of State Services for interrogation after an interview he granted Nigeria Info, where he claimed that a Northern Governor was the Commander of the terrorist group, Boko Haram, among others. He was later released and re-invited by the Police to the Force Headquarters, Abuja, for further questioning. Backed by a court injunction, however, the former CBN Deputy Governor did not honour the last invitation. 