…warns Kogi governor THE Peoples Democratic Party in Ondo State  has expressed surprise that a former chairman of the All Progressives Congress in the state, Isaac Kekemeke, had not been arrested, despite his open threat to unleash terror and rig the forthcoming Ondo governorship election. Kekemeke, also a former Secretary to the State Government, was caught on video, addressing a gathering, where he described himself as a militant. In the video clip, Kekemeke also boasted that he would commandeer armed gangs to let the election favour the APC candidate, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. But at a press conference in Akure, the state PDP chairman, Fatai Adams, said that the party was surprised that Kekemeke was still a free man, despite his utterances. It also wondered why the APC chieftain was not arrested and quizzed, after he openly admitted that he was responsible for destroying posters and billboards of the party’s governorship candidate, Eyitayo Jegede (SAN). He said, “We are surprised that up till now, the security agencies have not apprehended Kekemeke to answer for his utterances that are capable of precipitating crisis and setting Ondo State on fire ahead of the gubernatorial election in the state. “His statement was careless and very reckless; unbecoming of a man who parades himself as a lawyer. By his utterances, he is a huge disgrace to his profession and party.” The PDP also drew public attention to a threat by Kekemeke that ‘federal might’ would be deployed, and that Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State was already recruiting thugs and breeding a ‘killer squad’ to cause mayhem in Ondo State on election day. The party, however, warned the Kogi governor  that the party would not fold its arms to see him subvert the will of the people of Ondo State. “We wish to put it on record that the people of Ondo State have rejected Akeredolu and his lack-lustre performance. Therefore, threatening violence will not in any way save him from defeat. Our victory at the poll is already guaranteed, as we rely on God and the good people of Ondo State,” the party declared. 