THE Debt Management Office, on Wednesday, said that the $3.12bn loans fom China were used to finance 11 infrastructure projects. The agency said this in a statement made available to journalists. Explaining how the loans were used, the agency said that the $3.121bn loans were project-tied loans used to finance about 11 infrastructure projects. Some of the projects are the Nigerian Railway Modernisation Project (Idu-Kaduna section); Abuja Light Rail Project, and Nigerian Four Airport Terminals Expansion Projects (Abuja, Kano, Lagos and Port Harcourt); Nigerian Railway Modernisation Project (Lagos-Ibadan section); and Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Abuja-Keffi- Makurdi Road Project. The DMO stressed that the impact of these loans was not only evident but visible. For instance, it said, the Idu-Kaduna Rail Line had become a major source of transportation between Abuja and Kaduna. Also, the agency said the new International Airport in Abuja had improved air transportation for the populace, while the Lagos-Ibadan rail line when completed, would ease traffic on the busy Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. It said, “The projects also have the added benefits of job creation, not only by themselves but through direct and indirect service providers, a number of which are Small and Medium Enterprises. “It is widely accepted that investment in infrastructure is one of the most effective tools for countries to achieve economic growth and development. Using loans from China to finance infrastructure is thus in alignment with this position.” The statement said that the $3.12bn loan from China constituted about 3.94 per cent of Nigeria’s total public debt of $79.3bn as of March 31, 2020. Similarly, in terms of external sources of funds, DMO, in the statement, said loans from China accounted for just 11.28 per cent of the external debt stock of $27.67bn on the same date. These data, it noted, showed that China was not a major source of funding for the Nigerian Government. While explaining what the terms of the loans from China are, DMO said that the total borrowing from China – $3.121bn as of March 31, 2020 – were concessional loans with interest rates of 2.50 per cent per annum. It put the tenor of the loan at 20 years, adding that it comes with a  grace period (moratorium) of seven years. It added, “These terms are compliant with the provisions of Section 41 (1a) of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2007. In addition, the low interest rate reduces the Interest Cost to Government while the long tenor enables the repayment of the principal sum of the loans over many years. “These two benefits make the provisions for Debt Service in the Annual Budget lower than they would otherwise have been if the loans were on commercial terms.” On the process by which the loans were obtained, the DMO said that the principal process and requirements for borrowing by the Government were expressly stated in the Debt Management Office Establishment (ETC) Act, 2003 (DMO Act) and the Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2007. It said, for instance, that Section 21 (1) of the DMO Act, stipulated that no external loan should be approved or obtained by the Minister unless its terms and conditions shall have been laid before the National Assembly and approved by its resolution. Similarly, it added that Section 41 (1a) of the FRA stated, “Government at all tiers shall only borrow for capital expenditure and human development, provided that, such borrowing shall be on concessional terms with low interest rate and with a reasonable long amortisation period subject to the approval of the appropriate legislative body where necessary.” Providing more insights on the loan approval process, the statement said the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning works with the Ministries, Departments and Agencies under whose portfolio a proposed loan falls, and also with the DMO. Thereafter, it said the approval of the Federal Executive Council  is sought. It added, “It is only after the approval by FEC that His Excellency requests for the approval of the National Assembly as required by Section 41 of the Fiscal responsibility Act, 2007. “More importantly, it is only after the approval of NASS that the loans are taken and Nigeria begins to drawdown on the loans.” In summary, the agency said borrowing was a joint activity between the Executive and the Legislative Arms of Government. 