THE Onojie of Ekpoma, His Royal Highness Anthony Abumere II, on Friday, commended the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party and Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, for his laudable projects across Ekpoma, Esan West Local Government Area of the state. The traditional ruler, who was impressed with the various developmental projects executed by the Governor Obaseki-led administration in Ekpoma, assured the governor that his people would show their appreciation with their votes at the September 19 governorship election. He said, “You know that the election is around the corner. The tension is rising and I pray for peace before, during and after the election. On behalf of myself and all the traditional rulers in Esan West Local Government Area of the state, I want to sincerely thank you for all the visible projects across Ekpoma. We are seeing your good work. “The great Ambrose Alli University (AAU) has taken a new look. You transformed the University. I can say that we have never seen such transformation before in AAU. I want you to know that my people are happy with you.” He added, “The people of Ekpoma and the entire Esan land are proud of you. We are happy, especially for the presidential pardon granted the late Prof. Ambrose Alli. His children are happy for the presidential pardon you facilitated. “Alli, when he was a governor, was a true democrat and a true leader, who had his people at heart. I want you to also know that the choice you made in joining PDP was not a wrong one.” The monarch conferred on the Governor, the traditional title of “Amenya of Ekpoma,” meaning the reserve of goodwill. The Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, was also conferred with the title, “Ofure of Esanland,” meaning an embodiment of peace. Governor Obaseki assured the traditional ruler that he would continue to construct roads for Edo people and emplace policies that would further uplift the people positively. He said, “Ekpoma is very important to us in Edo. Apart from its history in producing great leaders, like our late Prof. Ambrose Alli, who founded the university in this town. We are also proud of the numerous accomplishments of several of your subjects. “As a university town, it should wear the look of what a university town should be, because it is a center of learning. As government, we extended the infrastructural development to the town to make it compliment the University.” The governor promised to tackle the issue of erosion ravaging Ekpoma, assuring that work was ongoing in some erosion-prone areas in the local government. 