THE people of Ibadan, Oyo State, may have been thrown into fear again as the Oyo State Police Command announced, on Sunday, that the prime suspect in the series of killings in Akinyele area of the state, had escaped from its custody. The suspect, Sunday Shodipe, male, was arrested on July 17, and paraded along with two others, at the Command’s Headquarters, Eleyele, Ibadan. He was later remanded in police custody, after the last killing of one Olufunmilayo, around Ori Oke Olorunkunle, in Akinyele. Shodipe was however said to have escaped on August 11. About six persons were reportedly killed in cruel circumstances in the same area. The Command’s Public Relations Officer, Olugbenga Fadeyi, urged members of the public to contact men and officers of the Command for useful information that could lead to the suspect’s re-arrest. He said, “The Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Command, CP Joe Nwachukwu Enwonwu, psc wishes to state that, the prime suspect in the serial killings at Akinyele Local Government Area, Moniya Ibadan of Oyo State, one Sunday Shodipe, ‘m’, 19 years, who was arrested and paraded along with two others at the Oyo State Police Command on 17th July, 2020, and later charged to court, but remanded in Police custody, escaped from lawful custody on 11/08/2020. “Consequent upon this, the CP wishes to implore the general public to be on the lookout, arrest and immediately inform the officers and men of the Command when sighted for immediate handing over for further action. “He further seizes this opportunity to appeal to any member of the public with credible information as to the whereabouts of the assailant not to hesitate in passing same to the Oyo State Police Command to assist in the apprehension of the offender who is now at large.” The police spokesperson stated unequivocally that the Command was committed to the protection of lives and properties of the good people of Oyo State. He said, “He (the CP) therefore assures that adequate security measures have been emplaced to enable all and sundry transact their lawful businesses in an atmosphere of peace and tranquillity, move from one place to another without any fear or molestation from any individual or groups as he sternly warns criminal elements to steer clear of Oyo State. “He further advises angry youths/mobs from taking laws into their hands by carrying out jungle justice when suspected criminals are arrested, but such suspect(s) should be handed over to the Police.” 