THE Acting Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Prof. Theophilus Soyombo, resumed in office, on Wednesday, pledging to prioritise the welfare of workers. Though Soyombo was received joyously, mainly by members of the Non-Academic Staff of the University, the cold air could still be felt as regards the disposition of the Academic Staff Union of the University to his appointment. While addressing staff from the foyer of the Senate Building, the Acting Vice-Chancellor called for the workers’ support, noting that he alone could not do the job. He reminded them that UNILAG was bigger than any one person, praying for peace and stability to return to the institution. Soyombo said, “These are indeed trying times for our great university and our prayer is that God will see us through this trying period. I want to thank all our unions and the members – NASU, SSANU, NAAT, and ASUU. “No matter what we say, we are all together and should all work together. I believe that by the grace of God, peace and stability will return to our university and we will all continue to work together in unity.” Recalling how he emerged Acting VC, he stated, “We are all familiar with the current situation. On the 12th of August 2020, the Governing Council of the University of Lagos removed the former vice-chancellor and announced my appointment as the Ag. Vice-Chancellor of the University. “This appointment was with immediate effect. And I saw it as a call to service to the University of Lagos. And it is in this regard that I accepted the appointment for the ultimate benefit of the University. “I thought that we should not allow the ship of the University of Lagos to continue to drift. The University of Lagos is a foremost University; the University of Lagos is greater than any individual; anyone of us.” According to him, everyone’s stay in the institution will end one day. He said, “We all come here to work and at our various times, we pray that we all live till retirement. But whether we like it or not, when we work in UNILAG, we will leave UNILAG. But the University of Lagos will continue. It behoves us to leave the University of Lagos better than we met it. “There is a lot of work in the University of Lagos but I can’t do it alone, that is why I need your support; that is why I need your prayers and I believe that we should all join hands together; let us work together for the progress of our university. When we have a success story, it should be for each and every one of us.” ASUU, SSANU, NAAT, NASU, and lawmakers, among other stakeholders, have condemned the removal of Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe as VC, saying that the action of the Governing Council did not follow due process. 