It is beyond embarrassing that every time you try to relax and give the government of Dapo Abiodun a breathing space to see how much traction it can get in the direction of service to the people; the government, its handlers and sycophants end up embarrassing themselves. The entire country is trying to get final year students to school to write the peer review all-important examinations. Meanwhile, in Ogun State, these students are being charged N25, 000 for COVID19 test! What is wrong with the APC government of Prince Dapo Abiodun? Do they not think through their actions and possible consequences and reactions? In the entire south-west, where else is this type of embarrassment taking place? Is it Oyo, that has creatively been working to manage things around the pandemic, or Lagos, where the real epicentre of the pandemic is? Is it Ekiti, Ondo or Osun? Please help us ask where Ogun State got this ill-conceived inhuman idea from. There are 36 states in Nigeria plus Abuja. Where is this type of thing happening apart from the home of Awolowo, the free education maestro. To imagine that Gov Dapo Abiodun is the child of teachers; how he ended up with such insensitive traits beats the imagination. A deeper look at the issue will leave a patriotic citizen of Ogun numb. Is it the illogical weekend close down that dragged on for way too long? Or the lack of transparency on the financial management aspect of the entire COVID19 pandemic? It gets more disturbing when one considers the notice given to parents to get about with this N25, 000 per child burden! What then has the NCDC been up to with the text messages and advocacy that people should go for voluntary testing if the idea is to make parents pay for children? It merely means that Prince Dapo Abiodun does not understand the times and the whole concept of a social contract with the citizens. Look at the colossal reputation damage done to Ogun State and its helmsman just because the operators are so determined to embarrass us all as citizens of the gateway state. Talks in high quarters are that everyone has given up on the Prince Dapo Abiodun government under less than two years. From the comments of those who feel he is inaccessible, to those who wonder what could be the basis of his perceived arrogance, given his background as a son of teachers, every criticism seems to make sense. People have also pointed out his disrespect for time, how he keeps people waiting for long hours, that is even if they get to see him. I had pleaded with all to give him a year to focus, saying as citizens, we should put our goodwill behind him and review things after a year. But what are we to make of this N25, 000 COVID19 crisis that has set tongues wagging and the news platform agog with negative news about Ogun and its callous handlers? There can be no justification for this, and it is likely to be a mistake that will not go away, no matter the spin that is put on it. There is the wrong assumption that those parents can easily afford it. I doubt if that is the reality of the majority. The Government of Prince Dapo Abiodun must reverse itself. And if the rumour that the governor did not give the directive is anything to be believed, then he must know that more damage has been done to his already controversial reputation. 