THE factional 17 lawmakers of the Edo State House of Assembly, who are claiming to be the authentic Assembly members, met on Tuesday, July 18, amid tight security. While alleging that there were plots to attack them, the lawmakers inaugurated 17 committees, which they said were needed for the smooth running of the state. Also, the House received two petitions over alleged withdrawal of salaries and entitlements of elected councillors in the 18 Local Government Areas over their refusal to defect to the Peoples Democratic Party with Governor Godwin Obaseki. The House also received a petition on the removal from office of the Vice Chairman of the Owan East Local Government Area, which it consequently referred to committees to investigate and report findings in two weeks. At their resumed sitting, which was held after the members held an executive session, the lawmakers condemned the continued siege on the House of Assembly complex by people they described as hoodlums, a development they said had propelled them to be meeting in a rented hall. The factional Speaker, Rt. Hon Victor Edoror, had set up 17 committees, which he said would help in the smooth running of the House. The member representing Uhunmwonde constituency, Hon Washington Osifo, alleged that there were plots to attack the members and inflict injuries on them. He said, “Mr Speaker, similar information got to us on June 18 last year and we ignored it because we thought these were our party members and they could not harm us, but few hours after, we were attacked by thugs, led by the CSO to the governor.
“The information available to us, Mr. Speaker, is that these same people are planning to again attack us and we must not take this for granted again.” The Speaker, in his reaction, condemned the plot, saying, “Democracy is a game of numbers and we have absolute majority. We call on our colleagues to trace their steps back and join us.” Edoror added that the Clerk of the House, who he alleged had been aiding seven lawmakers to meet, had been suspended and would be investigated. The lawmakers adjourned sitting to Tuesday, August 25. 