 … advise intending visitors to stay home Former Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, and his wives have tested negative for COVID-19. This was made known in a statement signed by the son of the former Emir, Adam Sanusi, on Sunday. The statement came on the heels of concern by Nigerians over the status of the former Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, having received so many visitors in the wake of his dethronement, in addition to his perceived closeness to Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State, who has tested positive for the virus. Sanusi advised Nigerians to comply with government’s directives, pointing out, however, that being infected with coronavirus was not a death sentence. “We have been inundated with calls asking about the health and safety of my father, especially given the number of visitors he received on arrival in Lagos, and a number of contacts he had who have either tested positive for COVID-19 or were in contact with persons who tested positive,” the statement read in part. It added, “As for my father, on March 25, he and all our mothers submitted samples for the COVID-19 test. These samples were taken at home under the supervision of Dr. Alero Roberts, the second Vice Chairman of the Association of Public Health Professionals. “On March 27, Dr. Roberts conveyed the results and all of them were negative. We hope this information will allay the concerns of all those who are asking.” Sanusi had earlier advised intending visitors to stay safe in their homes. He said in a video shared online, “I take this opportunity to thank all friends and well-wishers who have been trooping in from different parts of the country to visit me and express solidarity in these times. “I will like, however, to urge our friends, relatives and well-wishers to listen to the advisories given by the Ministry of Health that suggest that consistent movement and travelling expose people to the risk of contracting the coronavirus. “At this time, and given the nature of this pandemic and the ease with which it is transferred from person to person, we will like to advise all friends and well-wishers to defy any trip to Lagos unless they are necessary to see us. “We can speak on the telephone, we know you are with us, we know you love us and praying for us. But your health and safety are important to us. When this pandemic eases, and the situation improves we look forward to receiving.” 