Nigerians have been enjoined not to panic over the ravaging Coronavirus in countries across the world.  The convener of His Marvelous Grace Support Foundation, Mrs. Oluwayemisi Tayo-Ladega, who is a postgraduate student of Public Health at Bangor University, United Kingdom, said this against the backdrop of the recent discovery of another case of infection in Ogun State.  Tayo-Ladega, who spoke exclusively with our correspondent, said that Covid-19 should not generate serious panic amongst Nigerians, especially as UNICEF had rolled out information on the disease.  She also advised parents to ensure their children were guided on the prevention of the disease as directed by UNICEF.  “People are not expected to entertain panic more than necessary. Nigeria will surely overcome it. But at this, let’s all adhere to the advice of the UNICEF, especially in guiding the kids,” she said.  She highlighted the UNICEF advice on the disease as follows:  “Coronavirus is large in size where the cell diameter is 400 – 500 micro and for this reason any mask prevents its entry. So, there is no need for pharmacists to trade in masks.  “The virus does not settle in the air but is grounded, so it is not transmitted by air.  “Coronavirus when it falls on a metal surface, will live 12 hours. So, washing hands with soap and water is well enough.  “Corona virus, when it falls on the fabric, remains alive for nine hours. So, washing clothes or being exposed to the sun for two hours meets the purpose of killing it.  “The virus lives on the hands for 10 minutes. So, putting an alcohol sterilizer in the pocket meets the purpose of prevention.  “If the virus is exposed to a temperature of 26 to 27 ° C, it will be killed, as it does not live in hot regions. “Also drinking hot water and sun exposure will do the trick  “And stay away from ice cream and eating cold foods.  “Gaggling with warm and salt water kills the tonsils’ germs and prevents them from leaking into the lungs.”  Tayo-Ladega, however, implored the Nigerian government and medical experts to repeat the successful feat displayed against the outbreak of Ebola disease some years back. 