Kaduna State Commissioner for Health, Dr Amina Mohammed Baloni, said the state government has constituted an Emergency Operational Centre, following the announcement of the first case of the virus in Lagos. Also, the Delta State Commissioner for Health, Dr Mordi Ononye, said the state government had established isolation centres in hospitals, airports and other strategic locations in a bid to tame the spread of the virus in the state. In the meantime, the Trade Union Congress on Saturday expressed its fears over containment of the virus, citing the collapse of health facilities in the country. TUC, in a statement by its President, Quadri Olaleye, and Secretary General, Musa-Lawal Ozigi, pointed out that Nigeria faced a daunting task, especially with more technologically advanced countries battling with little success to control the spread of the virus in their countries. It said, “We call on the government at all levels to give the health sector the attention that it deserves. Government should provide adequate protective equipment for health workers to be able to do their work effectively. Traveling abroad for medical care is not the recipe. Some viruses are not selective. Coronavirus is on and we must rise up to the occasion now.” Meanwhile, the Zamfara State Government says it has canceled the trip of 20 of its citizens, who were earlier screened to travel to China for studies under its scholarship scheme. The News Agency of Nigeria reported on Saturday that the state, under Governor Bello Matawalle, had secured admission for 200 indigent students to study various science and technology-related courses. They were to study in India, Sudan, Cyprus, China, among others. Coronavirus: PortHarcourt hospitals operate without sanitisers, face masks Despite the spread of the Coronavirus into Nigeria, some hospitals in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, have yet to start using hand sanitisers and other protective equipment like face masks. Our correspondents, who were at different health facilities in the state capital on Saturday, observed as patients walked into the various health facilities without being asked to wash their hands or use sanitisers. At New Mile One Hospital, a staff member said, “Currently, we have not brought out hand sanitisers at our lobby for patients, only our doctors and nurses inside use it.” At Mgbundukwu Model Primary Health Care Centre, there was also no sanitiser available for patients and other visitors to the hospital. A staff member, who did not disclose his name, said, “We used to have sanitisers in this health centre, but they were always stolen by patients.” Also, at the Fortison Hospital along Iwofe Road, only one health worker was seen wearing a face mask, while others were working without protecting themselves. And at the laboratory section of the hospital, the laboratory scientist was seen working without hand gloves while taking the blood sample of a patient. 