…says it’s accidental discharge . We don’t believe you, other hunters- Deceased’s family …demands justice A forty-two-year-old man, Kehinde Benjamin Edward, has allegedly been shot dead by his friend, Kehinde Adepeju, during a hunting expedition in a forest in Osun State. Edward, a father of four, was allegedly mistaken for a game and gunned down by Adepeju, a fellow hunter, in Igbo Ori-Oke in Ere-Ijesha community in Oriade Local Government Area of the state. Already, the police in Osun have arrested Adepeju and 13 other suspects for the alleged crime. Our correspondent gathered that Edward was invited by Adepeju, who usually hunt for games for domestic consumption, to go along with him on the hunting expedition on Saturday, January 18, 2020, when tragedy struck. Edward, who earned living through cocoa farming and shoe repairs business, it was learnt, honoured his friend’s invitation to hunt in the forest. Edward and Adepeju were said to have gone to the forest along with 13 other men to hunt games. During the hunting expedition, Adepeju was alleged to have pulled his gun’s trigger, killing Edward instantly. But sources said the suspect claimed it was an accidental discharge. But the remains of the deceased were allegedly deposited at the morgue of the Wesley Guild Hospital in Ilesa by Adepeju and the 13 other suspects without informing the family of the deceased. Edward lived with his four kids and pregnant wife in Ere Ijesa before he met his untimely death during the hunting expedition in the forest. Adepeju was said to have later reported the incident to the police in Ere Ijesa, claiming he killed Edward mistakenly. He was said to have been detained by the police. But the deceased’s family has accused Adepeju and the 13 other hunters of conspiracy and murder, demanding justice. Speaking on behalf of the family, the deceased’s twin brother, Mr. Taiwo Edward, demanded thorough investigation of the incident by the police and insisted that Adepeju and the other hunters conspired to murder Kehinde. Taiwo said he reported his brother’s alleged murder to the police before the 13 other suspects were apprehended. He said, “My brother (Kehinde) and I hail from Salubi-Orogun in Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State. I received a call from my niece that my brother was killed in the bush by some people. I left Ibadan, where I reside to Ere Ijesa to see things for myself. “I got to understand that my brother was invited by 14 suspects for a hunting game, which he obliged. They invited him to this hunting expedition without informing any of his family members. “We were not briefed. They killed him and kept the information from us. He was taken to the morgue without our consent, too. So, we suspect that our brother was murdered, although the prime suspect claimed that he pulled the trigger mistakenly. “We want justice to prevail. Our brother cannot just be killed like that.” Taiwo told our correspondent that after he reported the matter to the police, 13 other hunters were arrested, but when contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Folasade Odoro, confirmed that only one suspect was arrested 