Kano State Attorney-General, Ibrahim Muktar, on Wednesday, said that the state government did not banish the depose Muhammad Sanusi II as Emir. Muktar said the state government made it clear in its statement announcing Sanusi’s deposition on Monday, but never made reference to any banishment. The Kano AG, who spoke on Channels Television’s Sunrise Daily programme on Wednesday, said, “If you listen to the Secretary to the State Government when he was addressing the press on the issue of the removal of the emir from office, there was nowhere he stated that the emir was banished from Kano State. “So, the decision of the government when the emir was removed on Monday was that he was removed from office and a new one appointed. The issue of banishment was not part of the decision of the Kano State Government. “We have been hearing from the media that he has been banished but what I know is that he was taken out of Kano State but banishment was not part of our decision. There is no such decision to the best of my knowledge.” Muktar said security agents took it upon themselves to whisk Sanusi away from Kano State following intelligence reports obtained by them. He said it was normal practice for deposed emirs to be moved away to maintain peace in the state, adding that such an action was not in contravention of the constitution which guarantees freedom of movement. The AG further stated that Sanusi was not removed because of the corruption probe but strictly because of insubordination. He said, “The state government has not taken the law into its hands. Let me explain that the decision to remove the emir from office is administrative and was not based on the issues pending before the court. All the issues pending before the court have not to do with the removal of the emir or the dethronement.” On the continuation of Sanusi’s probe for corruption, Muktar said, “No decision on that actually. I cannot pre-empt the position of the government on whether investigation will stop or will continue. I cannot say as of now.” Sanusi has been in Nasarawa State since his removal on Monday and has been denied access to visitors, according to his lawyers. 