Senators have donated 50 percent of their salaries to support efforts at combating the coronavirus pandemic in the country. Ministers in the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari have also donated 50 per cent of their March 2020 salaries to the cause. The acting spokesman of the Senate, Senator Godiya Akwashiki, in a statement on Monday, explained that the upper legislative chamber made the decision to donate after a keen review of the national efforts to contain the pandemic. He said the monthly contribution, starting from March, would be sustained until Nigeria is declared safe from the deadly virus. Akwashiki said, “After due consultations following a keen review of the national efforts to contain the coronavirus pandemic in Nigeria, the Senate wishes to announce that from March, 2020, Senators will be donating 50 per cent of their salaries to these efforts to stop the spread of the disease, otherwise known as COVID-19, in our country. “This monthly contribution from the upper legislative chamber will be sustained until Nigeria is declared safe from the ravages of this deadly disease.” Akwashiki noted that the Senate commended the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari as well as the patriotic response of public-spirited individuals and organisations to the fight against the pandemic. The Senate, he said, was willing and ready to do whatever was required of the Legislature for the effectiveness of all the measures in place now or that may be required in the future to win the fight against this menace. He added, “The Senate commends all agencies of the Federal and state levels for working in collaboration to protect public health across the country. “The Senate further appeals to the citizens to comply with the directives on social distancing and observance of basic rules of hygiene as explained by public health officials as the most effective way to protect ourselves, families and country against COVID-19. “This is a global adversity that is testing the wit and resilience of mankind all over the world. By staying resolute and each of us responsibly playing their role, COVID-19 like all epidemics before it will soon be pushed into history.” President Muhammadu Buhari had ordered lockdown on Lagos, Abuja and Ogun states to contain the spread of the novel corona virus. The Federal Government announced 14 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday night, 9 in Lagos and 5 in Abuja, raising total to 111. Only 1 death recorded in the entire outbreak so far in Nigeria, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control said in a tweet at 9:30pm yesterday. 