… Governor Obaseki shuts down, withdraws school’s licence for flouting directive Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, Frank Okiye, has tested positive for coronavirus. Okiye’s chief detail was, however, said to have infected three other people. The Speaker returned to Nigeria last Friday from the United Kingdom. He is currently quarantined at the Irua Specialist Hospital, Irua, in Esan Central Local Government Area of the state. It was also gathered that Governor Godwin Obaseki was with Bauchi Governor Bala Mohammed, who has also tested positive to the virus. But some concerned Edo State indigenes have appealed to Nigerians to prevail on Governor Obaseki to, as a matter of urgency, go for a test if he had yet to do so, as his recent contact with some prominent Nigerians has made it imperative. Meanwhile, the Edo State Government has shut down and withdrawn the operating licence of the Salvation International School for flouting the directive of the government on the closure of all schools in the state, as part of measures to halt the spread of coronavirus. Special Adviser to the Governor, Programme Management Office and Strategic Planning Unit, Dr. Uyi Oduwa-Malaka and the Commissioner for Education, Hon. Jimoh Ijegbai, led a team to lockup the premises of the school located along Airport Road, in Benin City. Oduwa-Malaka said the team responded to a distress call by concerned citizens in the area. According to her, against the directive of the state government, management of Salvation International School, allowed students to continue to attend lectures in mufti to conceal their identity. She added, “The management of the school has been arrested, while the school has been sealed off for flouting the directive of the Edo State Government for all institutions of learning to be shut down from 23rd March 2020.” Commissioner for Education, Hon. Ijegbai, warned that the government would not tolerate flouting of its directives, adding, “We hope the case of Salvation International School will be an eye-opener and serve as a deterrent to other erring schools in any part of the state.” Recall that in a statement, Secretary to State Government, Osarodion Ogie, directed that all schools in the state, including primary, secondary and tertiary institutions, be shut down with effect from Monday, March 23, 2020 to curtail the spread of the novel coronavirus in the state. 