…18 to be punished for absconding Eighteen members of the National Youth Service Corps, 2019 Batch A, serving in Ebonyi State are to face various punishments for flouting the rules and regulations of the scheme. State Coordinator of the Corps, Ann Ibe, stated this during the passing out parade of the batch C Corps members at the Pa Ngele Oruta Township Stadium, Abakaliki. She said some of the Corps members, who absconded for three months or more, would repeat the service year, while others who absconded for about a month, would have the number of days they absconded doubled. A total of 2, 097 Corps members will be concluding their service year in Ebonyi State. She said that out of this number, four were given the State Honours Awards in recognition of their outstanding performance during their stay in the state. A few others, she said, also received the Chairman’s and State Coordinator’s awards, respectively. “Also, a total of 18 Corps members will have to receive various levels of punishments in line with the NYSC Bye Laws 1993 for various offences committed.” The four recipients of the State Honours Awards are Temitope Victoria Makanjuola, Nwosu Adaobi, Ngweche Chukwuma and Okeke Chiamaka. Governor David Umahi urged the Corps members to utilise the skills they learnt during the service year to create a better future for themselves. He said, “Reports reaching me indicates that you were committed to the skills Acquisition Programme introduced by the NYSC scheme to empower corps members for self-employment. I am equally aware of other interventionist programmes passed down by government agencies and the NYSC aimed at giving you access to credit facilities for self-employment. “I urge you to utilise these opportunities to create a better future for yourselves. With the present scarcity of job openings, I strongly believe that empowering the youths through skills acquisition and entrepreneurship development is the surest way to reduce the current level of unemployment” The governor commended the Corps members for their contribution in the areas of healthcare delivery, education and social services, which he noted will forever be cherished. “I salute your patriotic spirit and efforts during the service year. The success you recorded is a proof of your endurance and abiding faith in the unity of our nation,” he said. Represented by the Commissioner for Sports and Youths Development, Charles Akpuenika, the governor said the ability of the Corps members to integrate into their host communities underscored the relevance of the NYSC in the promotion of national unity. The NYSC scheme had over the years contributed immensely to the growth and development of our country. Umahi noted that apart from fostering national unity and integration, the scheme had become a veritable tool for the implementation of very important national development programme In a vote of thanks, Miss Okeke Chiamaka thanked the state government and the NYSC for the opportunity given them to serve. She promised that the Corps members will utilise all they have learnt and strive to be good ambassadors of the NYSC and the state. 