…as state traces 111 contacts Panic has gripped residents of Edo State following confirmation that the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Frank Okiye, has tested positive to coronavirus.  The state’s Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, who has tested negative, said Okiye was currently on a stable condition.  He disclosed that the state was also tracing 111 persons, who had in one way or another had contact with some people that had contracted the virus.  However, some residents, who spoke with our correspondent, appealed to Governor Godwin Obaseki to use his security vote to give residents of the state some palliative measures, especially foodstuffs.  But a civil servant, Mr. Patrick Ohio, said, “The most annoying part of this whole issue is that it is the so called leaders that have brought this coronavirus more into the country. They won’t stay where they govern. How many officials of those countries they run to every now and then, come here the way they go there? Headache, they are off. Weekend, they are off. Newspaper summit, they are off. You all see what you have caused? Health care they won’t put in place. Education sector is in disarray, but their children are in the best schools abroad. The chicken has come home to roost now. No more going anywhere. We’re all here together. I hope they would do the needful when this problem is over.”  Another resident, John Mayaki, said, “For this, we commend Frank Okiye and congratulate Governor Godwin Obaseki. Their actions, far more potent than words, showed to us what health experts have been preaching in the case of possible exposure or display of symptoms: isolate, seek medical help, and act responsibly. It is our prescribed duty against the scourge, alongside other adjustments to socializing, including social distancing, homestay, unless in the case of an emergency, and the practice of good personal hygiene. If we are to win and ensure the heroic works of health workers braving the odds will not go to waste, then all hands must be on deck.”  On his part, a member of the House of Representatives, Prof. Julius Ihonvbere, said, “My dear Owan and Edo State people, this is an appeal.   Take the Coronavirus very seriously. It is a deadly virus. It has humbled nations. It is destroying powerful businesses.  Italy did not take it seriously. Today it has killed more Italians than Chinese.  “Follow the health and safety instructions already issued. Wash your hands very regularly. Distance yourself from others as much as possible, seek help if you are sick, use your sanitizer often, avoid all gatherings and please take good care of yourself and loved ones.  “Coronavirus has no respect for your age, money, size, beauty, village, nationality, religion or political party. It is already in Nigeria. Before government will close all schools, close major airports to foreign flights, ban all officials from foreign travel, ban flights from many countries, including the USA, cancel religious and other gatherings and close major airports, you can know that it is a very serious matter.  “Again, this is an appeal. I am begging you all, my dear people, please, please and please, take the coronavirus very seriously. May God continue to protect and bless us all.” 