The Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Abba Kyari, has arrived at Lagos in an Air ambulance to continue his treatment after testing positive for coronavirus. On Sunday night, Kyari said he left Abuja for Lagos to do additional tests and observation. The President’s Chief of Staff said the decision he took based on medical advice was also a precautionary measure. Kyari said in a letter that he made his personal care arrangements to avoid further burdening the public health system, which faces so many pressures. The letter read: “I am writing to let you know that on medical advice, I will transfer to Lagos later today for additional tests and observation. “This is a precautionary measure: I feel well, but last week, I tested positive for coronavirus, the pandemic that is sweeping the world. I have followed all the protocols government has announced to self-isolate and quarantine. “I have made my own care arrangements to avoid further burdening the public health system, which faces so many pressures. Like many others that will test also positive, I have not experienced high fever or other symptoms associated with this new virus and have been working from home. I hope to be back at my desk very soon. “I have a team of young, professional, knowledgeable and patriotic colleagues, whose dedication has been beyond the call of duty, who continue to work seven days a week, with no time of the day spared. We will continue to serve the President and people of Nigeria, as we have for the past five years.” The news broke last week that Kyari had tested positive for the virus while his principal, Buhari was said to be negative. The presidency later released a statement confirming the report. President Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, many governors, ministers and other top government functionaries had mingled with Kyari shortly before he tested positive for the coronavirus (COVID-19). Kyari, who returned to Nigeria from Germany on March 14, had participated in several state functions and unofficial engagements that attracted prominent personalities. Presidency sources said all those who have been exposed to the President’s Chief of Staff have been on self-isolation. It was gathered that all the staff working with Kyari were tested for coronavirus last Wednesday. 