A middle age woman, Ogunleye Adura, has been arrested by the police at the Ijanikin Division, Lagos, for allegedly stabbing her 10-year-old son with knife made red-hot in fire.  It was gathered that Adura, who is the biological mother of the 10-year-old boy, claimed she was only trying to punish her son for stealing.  Sources, who spoke about the incident, said the woman perpetrated the act in the middle of the night when there would be no one to intervene or even rescue the boy.  A resident, who simply identified himself as Babs, said the woman’s neighbours were, however, able to rescue the boy from his mother.  “The woman needs psychiatric test. I wonder if a true mother could use a hot knife to injure her son in that manner. If you see this boy, you will shed tears. I believe she will be dealt with by the police. If not that neighbours broke their door to rescue the boy, she would have killed him. The woman deserves no forgiveness.”  Meanwhile, a child rights advocate, Comrade Ebenezer Omejalile, has said the woman would be made to face the consequences of her action.  “What she did was nothing but an assault on the minor. Even if the boy was stealing as she claimed, was killing him the solution to the problem. This showed that she has even failed in her responsibility as a mother. What I will say is that the law will take its due course over this matter,” he said.  Our correspondent learnt that the suspect had escaped from police custody.  But the two officers in charge of juvenile cases, Inspector Kehinde Ojo and Superintendent Usifo Cecilia, said they would search for and re-arrest the accused.  They also promised that the boy would be sent to a government-owned shelter, adding that he was currently in the custody of the police at Ijanikin.  When contacted, Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said investigation was ongoing on the matter.  He said prosecuting the woman would serve as a deterrent to other people who indulge in child abuse. 