. Obaseki, Amaechi rally support for replacement The South South caucus of the APC may have pencilled in a former governor of Edo State, Prof Oserheime Osunbor, as a replacement for the embattled National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, The Point has learnt.  Inside sources at the South-South APC stakeholders’ meeting convened by Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State and Minister of Transport, Hon.  Rotimi Amaechi, in Abuja, and which held between last Thursday night and Friday morning, told The Point that although the Acting National Secretary, Victor Giadom was backed to be the acting national chairman in the interim, after a heated debate during the meeting on who should succeed Oshiomhole in the event of his removal from office during tomorrow’s National Executive Committee meeting, the leaders of the zone unanimously agreed that Osunbor was the best candidate to take over the party machinery at the national level.  Party stakeholders under the auspices of APC South-South Stakeholders’ Forum, had early last week said that the region fully backed the plot for Oshiomhole’s removal as the party’s national chairman.  They insisted that the region’s leaders had resolved that Oshiomhole should be sacked from office.  Ray Murphy, a former senatorial aspirant and Media Adviser to a former APC national chairman, John Odigie-Oyegun, had said that the region was fully in support of the emergency NEC meeting scheduled for tomorrow to appoint an Acting National Chairman to replace Oshiomhole.  Murphy said, “I am saying that there is a suspension, there is a court order and the reasons for this situation is known to all of us.  “It is in the interest of our party to put Oshiomhole’s era behind us and move forward with new leadership; that is what we are saying.  “This conception of a party being owned by certain persons is completely wrong. We are stakeholders who built the party. We run the party from the structure, we fund it.”  Also, last Thursday, a big billboard, posters and banners carrying Oshiomhole’s pictures were re­moved from the party’s National Secretariat in Abuja, indicating an imminent end to his tenure. Earlier on Wednesday night, a large banner at the main gate of the secretariat was replaced with that of Presi­dent Muhammadu Buhari.  A large bill­board within the premises of the party secretariat bearing Oshiomhole’s picture with President Buhari has also been replaced with an­other one carrying only the President’s picture.  It was also learnt that Obaseki and Amaechi had at an earlier meeting agreed on the choice of Osunbor as the next substantive national chairman of the ruling APC.  Although Oshiomhole, the Deputy President of the Senate, Ovie Omo-Agege and the APC National Vice-Chairman, South-South, Hilliard Eta, stayed away from the meeting, four serving Ministers from the zone, including Amaechi (Transport), Osagie Ehanire (Health), Festus Keyamo (State, Labour) and Goddy Jeddy Agba (State, Power) attended.  Also at the meeting were a former Senate Leader, Victor Ndoma-Egba; former Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Usani Nguru Usani; and ex-NIMASA boss, Dakuku Peterside, and others.  The South-South APC leaders in a communique issued at the end of the meeting stated that they only recognised the party’s NEC as the only organ that could resolve the current internal crisis.  “Aside from backing Giadom as the acting national chairman of our party, it was also agreed that Prof. Osunbor should be our unanimous choice for the position of the national chairman of the APC. We took this position ahead of a likely mini-convention that may be convened to elect a new national chairman and in order not to be caught unprepared, the meeting agreed to present Osunbor to retain the position in our zone,” a source at the meeting, who pleaded not to be identified, told The Point.  Towards this end, the Edo State governor and the transport minister were said to have at the weekend reached out to anti-Oshiomhole forces in other zones, particularly the North West and South West as well as to state chairmen of the party to sell Osunbor’s candidature ahead of any mini-convention to elect a substantive successor to the embattled APC national chairman.  Obaseki and Amaechi, it was learnt, are harping on Osunbor’s qualities as an academic, a lawyer and an astute politician with the “necessary clout and temperament” to occupy the office of the APC national chairman. Osunbor served as from May 29, 1999 to May 29, 2007, before contesting and winning election as the governor of Edo State, an office he occupied till November 11, 2008.  Recall that Osunbor’s election as Edo governor was nullified on November 11, 2008 by a court, following a suit instituted by Oshiomhole, who was then the candidate of the then Action Congress. The court also declared Oshiomhole the winner of the Edo governorship poll, sacking Osunbor from office.  But when contacted on the phone by our correspondent, Osunbor declined to speak on the matter.  “This is the first time I’ve heard this,” he tersely said before cutting the call.  WHY TINUBU WON’T SAVE OSHIOMHOLE  However, The Point has learnt that the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, may have refrained from intervening in the current crisis rocking the party to save the embattled national chairman because he was not happy with Oshiomhole’s tardy handling of the issue of the selection of the former governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, as the party’s new Deputy National Chairman.  Credible sources said Oshiomhole’s procrastination in inaugurating Ajimobi, who was selected by the South West caucus since January, as a replacement for the former occupant of the office, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, who is now a Minister in the cabinet of President Muhammadu Buhari, angered Tinubu.  It was learnt that Tinubu is of the opinion that if Oshiomhole had inaugurated Ajimobi, who is one of his strongest allies, immediately the South-West APC selected him, the party would have been saved the current leadership crisis bedeviling it since the embattled national chairman was suspended by an Abuja High court.  Oshiomhole and the APC National Working Committee had immediately announced Ajimobi as the deputy national chairman following the court’s ruling, an action vehemently opposed some party chieftains and officials, who insisted that any decision taken by Oshiomhole after the court’s ruling remained illegal and unconstitutional.  But it was learnt that Oshiomhole de­layed Ajimobi’s inauguration because he was making efforts to resolve the disagreement that had arisen between the APC in Ekiti  and Oyo over the position as Governor kayode Fayemi and the party elders in the state had insisted that Ekiti must retain the office.  Tinubu, it was learnt, had blamed the leadership vacuum created after the court’s ruling and the subsequent crisis on Oshiomhole’s failure to inaugurate Ajimobi.  “Oshiomhole finished himself before Asiwaju. If he had inaugurated Ajimobi before the court ruling, the party would have been saved the current leadership crisis and Asiwaju is definitely not happy with him over this. So, there’s no way Asiwaju can intervene on his side. The belief is that Oshiomhole is facing the consequences of his own actions or inactions and so Asiwaju has decided to let him stew in his own juice,” a source said.  OSHIOMHOLE’S SUPPORTERS KICK  Supporters of the embattled APC national chairman are predicting doom for the ruling party should Oshiomhole be kicked out at tomorrow’s NEC meeting.  They are certain that the party is heading towards slef-destruction.  A former deputy governor of Edo State, Rev Peter Obadan, said it was only God that could save the APC under the current situation it has found itself.  Obadan, who went spiritual, said, “Heaven has settled the case of Oshiomhole versus all tongues that have risen against him in judgement. Oshiomhole like David, is not perfect, but God declared that David was a man after God’s heart. Let him without blemish thunder out and like those who dragged to Christ the woman caught in adultery, I will stoop down and list seven sins against them, for those who address the press against Oshiomhole have rotten skeletons in their inner chambers.  “I have held my peace to avoid a calamitous destruction of some of these loud-mouth senior citizens because I know after God settled this crisis in the spiritual realm in manifestation, a mighty wind shall blow and a heavy rain will fall and out of destruction there shall be calm but all shall not be the same again. Victory is assured and let not your hearts be troubled for GOD THE ALMIGHTY IS IN CHARGE.”  Also, a former Secretary to the Edo State Government and APC gubernatorial aspirant, Pastor Osagie Ize-iyamu, described as unfortunate attempts by some people to pull Oshiomhole down.  He said, “Oshiomhole is a leader, who is indisputably the National chairman of APC, who has been elected twice as governor of Edo State and today occupies a pride of place in the history of the state.  “You would have thought the progress of our people is our progress. You would have thought Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, being the National chairman of APC, will be a thing of pride and bring joy to those in authority in Edo. But because by nature some people are wicked, they don’t want us to appreciate something that is good.” 