A Non-Governmental Organisation, Child Protection Network, has urged parents, relations and members of every community to do everything in their capacity to guarantee the protection for children.  This is just as the police called on community leaders to desist from any act that could stall efforts to expose individuals that might be linked to criminal activities against children.  Such abuses include illicit sex, domestic violence, exploitation, neglect and maltreatment, amongst others.  The calls were made at the inauguration of CPN in Ibeju Lekki Local Government Area of Lagos, in collaboration with the Rule of Law and Anti-Corruption programme in Nigeria.  CPN State Coordinator, Mrs. Ajibola Ijim, in a goodwill message, said the safety of a child was very important, stressing that all hands must be on deck to ensure their security was guaranteed.  The state coordinator, who was represented by Florence Adewale, a lawyer, averred that children have the right to live quality lives in a safe and secure environment.  She, however, lamented that the rights of children were in recent times increasingly being violated, with little or nothing being done to contain or checkmate the incidents.  “It’s time for the community to protect the children and ensure cases of abuses are reported to the appropriate authorities,” Ijim stated in her goodwill message.  “It is our fervent hope we all will become advocates to fight for the rights of children in this community,” she added.  The police, in their remarks, bemoaned situations whereby individuals who are in indicted in child abuse cases are shielded from arrest.  The police specifically fingered traditional rulers and other community leaders, many of whom they said were in the habit of protecting individuals linked to such crimes.  They, therefore, appealed to traditional rulers and elders in the community to desist from such act, urging them to support the authorities in their efforts to address the menace.  Speaking with our correspondent, a community leader, who did not want his name mentioned, assured the organisation (CPN) and the police of the community’s support towards the course.  “I want to categorically state here that as representative and leader in this community, I will personally take the bull by the horn in addressing the situation. And I want to believe that other leaders too are on the same page with me. We shall do our best not to give room for criminals in our community,” he said. 