…as Assembly passes new law to check spread of coronavirus The Lagos State House of Assembly, on Thursday, passed into law a bill empowering security agencies to arrest people who flout directives aimed at stopping the spread of Coronavirus pandemic in the state. The bill recommended that those who flout the coronavirus lockdown directive be jailed for a month or fined N100,000. Members of the state House of Assembly passed the bill titled ‘A Law to Combat and Stop the Spread of Corona Virus Pandemic in Lagos State and for Connected Purposes’, at their plenary sitting. The bill, which also empowered Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to spend at least N20 billion to combat the pandemic in Lagos State, has 25 sections. Speaker Mudashiru Obasa directed the Clerk of the House, Mr. Azeez Sanni, to prioritise sending a clean copy of the passed bill to the governor for his assent. According to it, “The Bill empowers the Governor to incur the Kick-off expenditure sum of N20 billion to combat and stop the spread of the Coronavirus pandemic. “The Governor in combating the Coronavirus pandemic shall declare a state of emergency in the State to protect the people of the State from the pandemic. “The Bill calls for a Trust Fund named Coronavirus Pandemic Trust Fund with a board to manage this, but supervised by the Executive. The Trust fund shall consist of funds and material donations from individuals, private and public organizations. “As from the commencement of this law, only essential services such as food supply, pharmacy, shops, water supply, petrol filling Stations and other relevant agencies shall be in full operations unless the Governor declares otherwise. “All security agencies in the state including the Lagos State Neighbourhood Safety Corps Agency shall effectively ensure that policy directives of the Governor are implemented and enforced. “Where there is a violation of a close down or stay at home order, security Agencies shall have the power to arrest without warrant and may detain any person who violates the close down or stay at home order for at least 48 hours. “Where the arrested person is found guilty, the person is liable to a fine of N100,000.00 or one month imprisonment or three months Community service.” Lagos, which is considered as the epicentre of coronavirus in Nigeria, has a total of 32 confirmed cases as of 05.45pm on Thursday. 