. Hubby absconded 7 months ago, relations refused to show up- Hospital  . Nursing mother appeals for help A thirty-year-old nursing mother, Ada Chukwuma, and her newborn baby are allegedly being held in detention in the past nine months by the management of Mojoor Hospital, Egbeda, Lagos, over her inability to settle delivery bill amounting to about N285,000.  Our correspondent gathered that trouble began for Mrs. Chukwuma, when she was rushed to the hospital by her husband with the hope that she would deliver the baby naturally. But after she had been in labour for several hours and unable to deliver her baby herself, the medical team resorted to carrying out a caesarian section on her.  This delivery option, however, raised her hospital bill from what was expected to about N280, 000.  It was gathered that the nursing mother and her husband were given a hospital bill totaling N285, 000. But the couple was only able to raise N50, 000.  The development made the husband to abandon his wife and baby in the hospital, when all his efforts to get money with which to get them out were not successful.  Sources said the hospital management has also allegedly inflated the bill, claiming the nursing mother’s stay in the hospital attracts further payment.  Mrs. Chukwuma, who is an indigene of Ebonyi State, is now seeking the help of public-spirited Nigerians to save her and her baby from embarrassment.  A friend to the nursing mother, Roseline, explained, “The hospital is just trying to be wicked to her and the baby. Now that her husband has abandoned them in the hospital, where did they expect the money to come from? We have pleaded with them that she would work to raise the money, but they refused. Now that they have detained her for almost a year, has that given them the money? I think there is more to this situation. People should help us by intervening.”  Narrating her ordeal, Mrs Chukwuma told our correspondent that her husband absconded over seven months ago.  “I have spent nine months here now. I was detained when I could not meet up with the hospital bill. We managed to raise N50,000, but they didn’t release me and my baby. And my parents also left me here. I have begged them to allow me to work and raise the money, they didn’t yield. I also asked them to give me job to do while they take the money, but they didn’t. Since then I have been living here,” she said.  When our correspondent contacted the management of the hospital, they did not deny the nursing mother’s claims.  The Administration Manager of the hospital, Mrs. Dayo Salami, explained that both mother and child had been held in the medical facility for nine months due to the nursing mother’s inability to settle her hospital bill.  Salami said that the nursing mother’s husband was nowhere to be found while her parents too could not be contacted, adding that the hospital authorities could, therefore, not release her and her baby “like that.”  She, however, stressed that the woman and her child were not being held in the hospital under any inhuman condition as they were still allowed to make use of its facilities.  “They are truly detained because they owe us. The husband d idn’t show up again and we cannot release her like that. Both mother and child are safe and sound in good health. We have tried to contact her parents but all were not successful. We didn’t detain them like criminals, it is on the fact that they owe us. They are still sleeping on the hospital bed. You can come around and see them, so, that we will talk better,” she said.  Meanwhile, a child rights activist, Adebayo Success, has intervened in the matter.  He said the needful would be done to secure the freedom of the nursing mother and her baby from the hospital’s detention.  He also called on public-spirited individuals interested in helping the poor woman to reach her on: 07034970376. 