…lament National Sports Festival’s postponement Commercial sex workers in Edo State say they are devastated by the huge loss of revenue being caused them by the coronavirus pandemic, which has drastically reduced patronage.  They also expressed regrets at the postponement of the 20th National Sports Festival scheduled for Benin City, the state capital, due to the raging virus.  The commercial sex workers said that the postponement of the sports festival would result in serious losses for them in terms of revenue, as they had spent money and time to prepare themselves for the event and were hoping to recoup and also make a lot of profit from the increased patronage expected throughout the period.  Chairperson of the Edo State Chapter, Association of Prostitutes of Nigeria, Madam O. Jessica, stated this in a chat with our correspondent in Benin City.  Madam Jessica stressed that the sports festival’s postponement would cause the members of her association, who had prepared vigorously for the event, huge revenue loss and economic hardship.  The festival, which was earlier scheduled to feature over 10000 athletes and officials, should have commenced on Sunday, March 22 and end on April 1, 2020 across various centres in Benin City.  She lamented that having done all the necessary documentation and accreditation for the biennial sports fiesta, they were dazed and perplexed to hear the sad news of its cancellation on radio due to the coronavirus pandemic.  Madam Jessica said that their expectations had been cut short and their hopes of cashing in on the festival dashed by the postponement of the event.  She said, “It’s very sad to have learnt about the postponement of the sports festival by the Presidency due to the Corona virus that is spreading like wildfire across the globe.  “Though the step is a welcome development, at least lives are more important than anything else, we are in support of the government decision to shift the event to yet to be decided date.”  The Edo State APN boss recalled that they had already forged a partnership with relevant security agencies to forestall any acts that could bring commercial sex workers in the state into disrepute by those who are not members, during the sports festival.  Madam Jessica said, “With the large turnout of athletes, officials and other stakeholders participating at the event, we are ready to accommodate and give better services to our customers at affordable charges.  “Before now, all arrangements had been put in place to ensure a hitch free event. We have set up a task force to monitor and checkmate the influx of rogues, who might want to use the event to perpetrate crime.  “We have our members’ data for the festival, but we are not leaving any stone unturned to checkmate those who are not our members that might want to do otherwise.  “We have set up a monitoring task force headed by our financial secretary and we had already received the backing of the security agencies, in case of any eventuality by those who are not our members.  “By this, the Association is taking the aspect of security of customers and our members seriously, because Edo is known as a home of hospitality. We will give better service like never before.  “We were able to satisfy our customers during the National Festival of Arts hosted in the city late last year.” 