Following the dethronement of Muhammadu Sanusi II as the Emir of Kano, a traditional ruler in Osun State, Olowu of Kuta, Oba Adekunle Oyelude Makama, Tegbosin II, has said the royal institution in the country has “lost its glory.”  To redeem the situation, Oba Makama, in a statement issued by his media office In Kuta recently, tasked the deposed Emir on reformation of the traditional institution so as to return respect and honour to royal fathers in the country.  The monarch noted that if the traditional institution was not reformed, more traditional rulers may abdicate their stools and face embarrassments.  To quicken this desired reformation, Oba Makama asked Sanusi to pursue causes that would insulate traditional rulers from politics and restore prestige to the traditional institution.  Oba Makama advised Sanusi not to be swayed by some individuals who had been inviting him to join partisan politics since his ordeal.  He said he should rather channel his vigour and experience to bringing about legislations that would reposition and reclaim the lost glory of the traditional institution.  He also urged Sanusi to explore the window offered by the constitution review committee constituted by the National Assembly to submit memoranda to be considered for the needed amendments on laws affecting the traditional institution.  According to the monarch, “I want Sanusi, having been in and out of palace, and knowing where the shoe pinches for the traditional rulers, to take up the challenge on how to reform the traditional institution.  “He should not be swayed by those inviting him to partisan politics; his focus now should be on how to reform the traditional institution in Nigeria in conjunction with stakeholders among concerned genuine monarchs with a view to repositioning it. I think we need to enact a legislation that will insulate traditional rulers from politics so that they can play the role of fathers to all. This is what destiny has placed on them and Colonial Chiefs law needs total amendments or outright review to achieve this responsibility.  “The idea of dethronement started from the colonial masters, but instead of stopping it, it continues in the old western region led by late Awolowo and also reverberated in the north through the then Premier, Alhaji Ahmadu Bello.  “Unless we address the issue and place our traditional rulers in their rightful position, some may abdicate their responsibility in the face of daunting task that may make their continued Obaship a ruse.”  The monarch cautioned those reading political meanings to the settlement of Sanusi in Lagos, adding that the former Emir of Kano had the right to reside anywhere in Nigeria.  “I condemn in strongest terms any groups or individuals reading ulterior motives to deposed Emir Sanusi’s choice of Lagos. The Southwest has always been known for its accommodating nature of class of people, irrespective of tribal or religious beliefs; the ex-Emir should feel at home in the Southwest and enjoy a peaceful coexistence with us,” Oba Makama said.  The royal father, however, commended the judiciary and the Federal Government for speeding up Sanusi’s freedom from banishment. 