The police in the Ojodu Abiodun Division of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested a couple, Mr. and Mrs. Kayode Adetula, for allegedly battering a teenager, Aliru Aisha.  It was gathered that Aisha, who is a house maid to the couples’ neighbours, was allegedly battered by both husband and wife for allegedly insulting them.  It was also learnt that the couple also hired some police officers from the Ojodu Abiodun Division in Ogun State to assault the minor.  According to a resident of the area, Mrs. Folakemi, “The girl is Aisha Aliyu, she is about 19-year-old and work for a madam Olaitan Akinbi at Sparklight Estate Road, Ojodu Abiodun Phase.  “A neighbour to her madam, Mrs. Bimbo Adetula, together with her husband, Mr. Kayode Adetula, physically assaulted Aisha Aliyu and beat her to a state of stupor, causing injury to her face and also causing her hearing difficulty, all because she spread clothes on their line.  “After beating her mercilessly, the couple dragged her to their veranda and locked her up for hours. They also brought three police officers from Ojodu Abiodun Police Station, who happened to be their friends. The three officers harassed and threatened Aisha, and eventually beat her with their baton.  “Due to the wrong intervention of the police officers invited by the perpetrators, Aisha was rescued from being taken to the police station and locked up by the administrators of the estate.”  A friend to the victim’s guardian, who simply identified herself as Mrs. Toyin, said, “This is a clear case of Physical violence and misuse of power and position; we appeal to the DPO of the division to investigate the matter. The perpetrators, Bimbo and Kayode Adetula were arrested by the Ojodu Abiodun Police Station. I learnt that the DPO had insisted on charging the case to court, but Mr. and Mrs. Adetula started begging, crawling on the ground and holding the clothes of the survivor.  “I practically told her to let the court decide the faith of the perpetrators; restitution should be decided by the court and not at the police station.”  But Adetula told our correspondent that the victim was beaten because she was rude to his wife.  “She was rude to my wife and I realised she was trying to support some people within the compound based on some issues that happened in the past. We have appealed to her; we hope to settle the matter,” he said. 