…visits isolation centres The President of the Commonwealth Medical Association, Dr. Osahon Enabulele, has called on government to step up efforts and deploy more facilities and resources to combat the coronavirus pandemic, which has led to thousands of deaths across the world. Enabulele made this call after he undertook an inspection of the isolation centres in Lagos, Gwagwalada, and the National Hospital Abuja, to ascertain the state of preparedness of the government health institutions, as the world continues to battle coronavirus (COVID 19). While acknowledging the efforts so far made by the Chief Medical Directors of the centres, NCDC, the Federal Ministry of Health, some state governments, and the Federal Government, Enabulele stated, “There is urgent need to improve the capacity of the few isolation centres through deployment of more health personnel, resources and equipment, as well as the recruitment of more frontline health personnel, and empowerment of the few healthcare personnel currently on ground, through provision of adequate and appropriate Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) and incentives. This is to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the Isolation centres, as well as boost the morale of health workers, particularly those already in the field combating the dreaded pandemic. ”So, beyond the current efforts of the Federal and some state governments, there is urgent need to expand and appropriately equip the isolation centres, strengthen the public health institutions, including the Primary Health Care facilities, as well as the capacity of the health personnel at those levels, to enable them to effectively manage cases of Covid-19 and other emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases. Enabulele also called on government not to hold back on total closures of all entry points into Nigeria, as well as effective reduction of mass gatherings. According to him, “I think it is important this is considered very quickly because the cases that have been coming in are imported cases. There is, therefore, need for government to go beyond partial closures, by extending the closure to every point of entry into Nigeria. “I want to urge the government to quickly consider this so that the cases already in the country can be effectively managed. Every effort needs to be made to get the government to enforce a total shut down of the points of entry into the country, especially as a fragile health system like that of Nigeria, may find it difficult to cope with the kind of explosive situation that occurred in China and Europe’. “We must also mobilise and empower people and communities at state and local levels to join in the fight against the pandemic. Their orientation, level of awareness and mobilisation need to be heightened. This is very important, as it seems there is still some level of disbelief in terms of accepting the reality on ground.’’ The CMA boss added, ‘’The National Orientation Agency must step up her efforts at mobilising Nigerians. They need to have sustained engagement with other stakeholders, including religious and traditional leaders, as well as associations, in order to heighten the level of national mobilisation and citizens’ participation in the fight against Coronavirus. Everybody must be made to see this as a national duty. “Even in terms of shutting down schools, public institutions and worplaces, recreational facilities and other avenues where you have mass gathering, it must be done conscientiously with the people carried along, and necessary incentives provided to aid compliance. ‘’A nationally mobilised citizenry is crucial and has helped other countries in addressing the scourge. From the evidence on ground, the NCDC seems already overburdened. There is, therefore, the need to consider unbundling the NCDC to enable the agency more responsively attend to the practical realities in the field. ”There is also the need to expand and strengthen Nigeria’s Diagnostic capacity. I see no reason why Nigeria should have only four public diagnostic reference laboratories to cater for the over 200million Nigerian population. Why shouldn’t each of the Federal teaching hospitals and Federal medical centres have the diagnostic capacity for managing cases of Covid-19 and other infectious diseases? “As a start, I expect government to provide each of the federal public hospitals with a diagnostic reference laboratory or at least two in each geopolitical zones. The availability of screening facilities and test kits will be useful in current efforts to contain the coronavirus in Nigeria. It will encourage people who feel they may have been exposed, to turn up for screening. “The issue of payment for healthcare services rendered to Nigerians infected with the virus needs to be urgently considered, in a way that addresses the inability of some patients to afford the bills. This can be a disincentive to some persons to turn up for screening, thus worsening the spread. “Since this is an emergency, I suggest that the Federal Government should as a matter of urgency, apply the emergency treatment funds provided for in the appropriate sections of the National Health Act, to address this challenge of payment for services being rendered to affected individuals. “He appealed to the Federal Government to give assurance to affected individuals that the healthcare bills will be taken care of by Government, or highly subsidised. This, he said, will surely encourage affected individuals to turn up voluntarily (even without being prompted), to be screened and managed, with containment of Covid-19 enhanced. ”It is my hope that after a successful management of this pandemic, government at all levels will henceforth give top priority to the rebuilding and strengthening of Nigeria’s weak health system, through sustained political commitment, provision of the necessary resources and investments, and effective stewardship.” 