…says nomenclature not recognised by constitution  A security expert, Mr. Jackson Lekan Ojo, has said the immediate past governor of Osun State and Minister of Interior, Mr. Rauf Aregbesola, introduced several “abnormal” policies that should be reversed by his successor, Governor Gboyega Oyetola. Ojo said that the changing of Osun State to ‘State of Osun’ by Aregbesola was an abnormality that the Federal Government should have sanctioned the state by withholding allocations to it. He accused Aregbesola of almost cutting Osun State out of Nigeria with such an abnormal nomenclature that is not known to the laws of the country. Ojo, in a chat with our correspondent in Osogbo recently, therefore urged Governor Oyetola to reverse ‘State of Osun’ to Osun State, just as he did some of the abnormal education policies put in place by Aregbesola. He said, “Aregbesola almost cut Osun state out of Nigeria in some areas of his policies. There was no longer uniformity in the school children uniform, which is abnormal. As a security expert, I saw the danger in doing that. There is nowhere such a thing has happened. “Do you know it is only Osun State in Nigeria today that the name is quite different from others? What is ‘State of Osun’? If I was the President of Nigeria, I would have made sure Osun State is not paid its allocation because of this. Look at the local government structure, it is only in Osun State that we have parliamentary system at the local government level. Yet it is not done in any part of the 36 states in Nigeria, where the local government structure is being governed by parliamentary system. “In Osun State today, we have parliamentary system at the local government. Nobody is contesting election as the local government chairman. All of them conduct election as councilors. And at the end of the day, the government will now pick a person to be the parliamentary leader. “What is the income annually generated revenue of Osun State? What is the statutory allocation from the Federal Government to Osun State that made us to go and create local council development areas? The only state that could do that in Nigeria is Lagos State. These are giant abnormalities. The then state Assembly, which was single-handedly done by the governor, that’s why whatever policy Aregbesola brought to them, they just stamped it. “So, to me, people across the globe, we are all applauding the current governor over the uniformity in the school uniform. But we still want him to do more. He should restore the name of the state to normal. We are Osun State and not ‘State of Osun.’ Our own state alone can’t be different from other parts of the country.” Ojo described Aregbesola as autocratic when he was the governor of Osun and claimed that he did not take advice from his aides. He said although Governor Oyetola was his Chief of Staff, he wouldn’t have supported some policies carried out by the Aregbesola-led administration. According to Ojo, “A lot of people are not happy with the developmental projects of Aregbesola, yet he took Osun to a higher height. But in the area of policies, it is abnormality. To me, I expect Oyetola to reverse all these abnormalities little by little. “Do you know our problem in this part of the world? Our problem is we have blind loyalty. A lot of people under Aregbesola were not comfortable. Aregbesola is an autocratic leader. He believes that he knows better than anybody in this world. A lot of his loyalists are not happy with that policy.” On insecurity challenges confronting Nigeria, Ojo argued that insurgency would persist so long as President Buhari continues to rule over the country. He also noted that the current service chiefs lacked the wherewithal to tackle insecurity in the country, hence the need for their replacement. Ojo said, “The will to fight this insecurity, I am not seeing it in this government. At the initial stage of this administration, the military base was shifted to Maiduguri. That was when they were ready to do something. Now, you see a lot of lackadaisical attitude on the part of the military in fighting the war. There must be surveillance to detect the secrets of Boko Haram. And to monitor the military men that are fighting, if some of them are sabotaging the war. When you are not building the morale of the men that are fighting the war, how do you want them to fight the war? “We know Boko Haram is in Sambisa forest, why can’t they destroy the place. The chief of staff, the chief of naval staff and others don’t have anything to offer again. When you are 70, you cannot run hundred metres race like secondary school students.” 