President Muhammadu Buhari, on Wedenesday, denied having a hand in the dethronement of Muhammadu Sanusi II as the Emir of Kano. Presidential spokesman, Mallam Garba Shehu, in a statement, said, “All such insinuations are untrue, malicious and politically-motivated,” stressing that the President had no business with the deposition of the emir by the Kano State Government. The Presidency’s statement came on the heels of an earlier allegation by the former governor of Kano State, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso, that Buhari was involved in Sanusi’s sacking. Kwankwaso had spoken on the Hausa Service of the British Broadcasting Corporation monitored in Kaduna on Wednesday. But the Presidency stressed that Buhari had no history of getting involved in matters that were purely within the jurisdiction of state governments, unless they had national security implications. The Presidency’s statement further said, “The President does not have a history of intervening in the affairs of any state in the country, unless the issue at hand is of national consequence. On such matters which impinge on national security, he has a duty of involvement as the law stipulates. “As outlined in the Constitution, the appointment or removal of emirs and other traditional leaders is strictly within the jurisdiction of state governments. It is unfair and disingenuous of opposition politicians to try to link the situation in Kano State to the federal government and the Nigerian President. “Although a retired general and former military Head of State, President Buhari clearly understands that under the current democratic dispensation, the government at the centre cannot read instructions or twist the arms of all or any of the 36 state governments making up the federation. They all have their powers specified under the Constitution.” The statement added that Buhari commended the people of Kano for keeping calm inspite of the tension generated by Sanusi’s dethronement. It stated, “President Buhari commends the people of Kano for keeping calm in the past few days of the dethronement announcement. “He prays that the will of Allah will be done at all times and that the emirate/state and its people continue to experience progress irrespective of who is on the throne.” 