…insists ex-Oyo gov not our nominee The crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress festered at the weekend as the Ekiti State chapter of the party insisted that it does not recognise former Oyo State governor, Abiola Ajimobi, as the deputy national chairman (South). The Ekiti State APC said that Ajimobi’s announcement by the party’s National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, as having been confirmed for the position by the National Working Committee amounted to a nullity. The state Public Secretary of the APC in Ekiti, Hon. Ade Ajayi, told our correspondent that the announcement of the nomination of the former Oyo governor as the party’s deputy national chairman was fraudulent. According to Ajayi, “We wish to categorically state here that the statement is a fraudulent assertion. We recall that a select leaders of the APC in the South West met in Lagos on Jan 31, 2020, where the APC State chairmen and other members of the South West caucus, being the statutory organ, was mandated to meet and decide on the matter. “Subsequently, the South West caucus of the party met accordingly on February 4, 2020 at Osogbo, Osun State capital, and it was inconclusive! “How can the party now issue a statement on March 4 that a decision was taken on 14th Jan 2020? It can only be a fraud! “As far as the Ekiti State APC Is concerned, our nominee for the vacant position of the Deputy National Chairman (South) is Senator Gbenga Aluko and we have not ceded our right to the position. “Secondly, it is unfortunate that the NWC could still go ahead to forge the decision of the NEC, which is the only body empowered by the party’s constitution to ratify the nomination of candidates. “Kindly recall that the same NWC wrote to the leadership of the Southwest on 29th January, 2020, to forward the name of their nominees to fill the vacant position. “How come then that the decision for ratification was taken on January 14, few weeks before the South West Caucus was asked for nominees through a letter on January 29? “Meanwhile, one should ask, whose prerogative is it to ratify the nomination? Is it that of NWC or that of the NEC? From the provisions of the articles of the APC constitution, it is clear that only NEC can ratify such nomination. It, therefore, suffices to say that the purported ratification by NWC of Ajimobi’s nomination is an effort in futility. “Thirdly, it should be recalled that an aggrieved aspirant to the contentious vacant position had instituted an action at the Federal High Court in Ado – Ekiti praying, among others, against any nomination or announcement of anyone to fill the vacant position pending the determination of the suit. “All the parties to the suit have been duly served, including the office of the National Chairman. Issues have also been joined by parties, meaning that the principle of lis pendis is already in place. The case is fixed for March 12, 2020. For anyone to go ahead in taking any decision or action while the matter is pending before a court of competent jurisdiction will not only amount to overreaching the court, but contempt and nullity of the purported action and decision. Whatever decision taken during the pendency of the matter is also a nullity. “When you consider the whole issue, it is clear that the position of Deputy National Chairman (South) of APC is still vacant and whatever nomination and announcement that may have been made is nothing more than a nullity and exercise in futility.” 