Ogun State Government has announced the closure of its borders with the neighbouring states and the international border with the Republic of Benin. The closure, according to a statement, issued on Saturday, will take effect from 12 midnight on Sunday, 29th March, 2020, and will be in force for two weeks in the first instance. The statement, signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Kunle Somorin, said with this restriction order, movement in and out of the state had been banned as a further measure to contain the coronavirus pandemic. It said the state was constrained to effect border closure in order to stem and flatten the curve of the spread of the dreaded coronavirus pandemic, not only in the state, but in the country and the West African sub-region. The Governor said, “The position of Ogun State is peculiar. It not only shares an international border with the Republic of Benin, it does so with all other states in the South West (except Ekiti), including Lagos State, which has understandably recorded the highest number of infections in the country largely because it hosts the busiest air and sea ports and it’s the nation’s economic capital. “The border closure will not only be beneficial to Ogun State but the national efforts to curtail and contain the virus. Lessons from other climes strongly indicate that closure of borders has the potential to drastically flatten the curve of spread whilst unrestricted movement portends grave dangers.” The only exceptions to the interstate restrictions, according to him, are vehicles conveying personnel involved in essential services such as security agencies, health workers, food, medical items and petroleum products. The statement enjoined citizens to fully cooperate with the security agencies who had been fully briefed and directed to effect the closure, noting that at this period of a global pandemic and national emergency, all hands must be on deck to slow down the spread of COVID-19. The border closure and other measures would be reviewed from time to time, in response to developments as they unfold, the statement added. 