Three members of the Oodua Peoples Congress in Osun State have been remanded by a Magistrate’s Court sitting in Osogbo for allegedly tying up a resident of the state and beating him. The defendants, Bakare Banke, 35; Oluwafemi Olaoye, 40; Adeyinka Simiyu and one other now at large, were accused of committing the offence on March 12, 2020 between 5:00pm and 6:00am at Ori-Eeru area, Oke Baale, Osogbo. Police prosecutor, Olayiwola Rasak, told the court that the defendants did tie one Adeniyi Nurudeen with a rope and beat him up without any justification. Rasak said that Nurudeen sustained severe injuries in the process. He further alleged that the OPC members did maliciously damage a pair of jean trousers and shirt that Nurudeen wore during the assault. Also addressing the court, the Investigative Police Officer, Mr. Isaac Oke, said the complainant had visited a bar to drink palm wine before a phone was declared missing. The bar operator was said to have accused Nurudeen of stealing the phone. The bar operator brought the OPC members who allegedly assaulted the victim. The IPO also told the court that the defendants dragged Nurudeen to their office, where he was brutalised with a cutlass. He said the clothes Nurudeen wore, which were valued at N6000, were torn. He added that after inflicting injuries on his body, they also sprayed pepper on the surface of the wound before he was tied down for a day. The prosecutor argued that the offence committed was contrary to and punishable under Section 516, 355,451 Cap 34 Vol ll Law of Osun State 2002. But the defendants pleaded not guilty to the three count-charge of conspiracy, assault and malicious damage leveled against them. Defense counsel, Okobe Nagite, prayed the court to grant the defendants bail in the most liberal terms. The prosecutor opposed the bail application on the ground that granting it would jeopardise the chances of arresting the fleeing suspects. Magistrate O. A Oloyade ordered the remand of the defendants in Ilesa Correctional Centre and adjourned the matter till April 13 for formal bail application. 