…bruised victim hospitalised A civil servant working at Boluwaduro Local Government Secretariat in Osun State, Mrs. Adegoke Adefunke, has landed in a hospital after she was allegedly beaten to coma by a female councillor in the council, Hon Esther Bolawaji Alani Oyewale.  Adefunke, a Senior Development Inspector in the council, was said to have been overpowered by Oyewale during a scuffle on Monday between the two of them in one of the offices located in the local government secretariat.  The fight was said to have been caused by a bickering between Oyewale, the councillor for Ward 3, Otan-Ayegbaju community in Boluwaduro Local Government Area of the state, and Adefunke, one of the staff of the council.  Adefunke was said to have sustained severe injuries during the clash, which resulted in her falling into a coma. She was said to have been rushed to a private clinic in the town, where she was resuscitated after some medical attention.  She was later transferred to a medical facility in Osogbo for better medical care.  In a chat with our correspondent, Adefunke, who was on the hospital bed, claimed that since Hon Oyewale became councillor she had become a thorn in the flesh of many members of staff of the local government.  “Since she became councillor, she has been harassing and assaulting not only me, but also other members of staff in the local government Secretariat. She always complains that I am arrogant and that she would make sure I was removed from the Secretariat,” she alleged.  Adefunke, however, called for the intervention of Governor Gboyega Oyetola to prevent a recurrence of the assault on her by the councilor after her discharge from the hospital.  But the councillor denied assaulting Adefunke. Rather, Oyewale claimed that she got several slaps from Adefunke during the fight that broke out in the presence of other civil servants in the Secretariat.  Oyewale told our correspondent on the phone, “I didn’t beat her; she was the one who descended on me and started beating me. I could not beat her back because she is my sister-in-law. I was supposed to have taken a step over this matter, but I decided not to take it up with her because she is a younger sister to my husband.  “As I am talking to you sir, I am in the hospital where I am currently receiving treatment. Initially, I thought it’s something I can manage, but I couldn’t bear the pains.” 