A fifty five-year-old pastor of one of the largest Pentecostal churches in Nigeria, Prince Apollos Okpara, has been arrested by the police in Mgbabor Echara village in Ebonyi Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, for allegedly defiling a 10-year-old daughter of one of the members of his church.  Pastor Okpara, who is a native of Amasiri in Afikpo South Local Government Area of the state, and the resident pastor of the church in the area, was accused of defiling the minor on Sunday, March 8, 2020 inside the premises of the church.  Our correspondent gathered that the suspect had sent the minor on an errand to buy some items for him, but on her return to hand him the materials, the pastor allegedly dragged her inside his room in the church vicarage, locked the door and defiled her.  It was learnt that the cries by the victim for help could not be heard by anyone because of the distance between the church hall and the vicarage, where the pastor allegedly perpetrated the criminal act.  He was thereby charged for committing an offence punishable under Section 218 of the Criminal Code, Cap 33 Volume 1 Laws of Ebonyi State of Nigeria, 2009.  But on March 17 when he was brought to court, he could not be arraigned before an Abakaliki Chief Magistrate’s Court presided over by Chief Magistrate Chinedu Agama. After about 30 minutes of waiting in court, the suspect was taken back to police custody.  A source in the court told our correspondent that the inability to obtain medical report stalled the suspect’s arraignment.  The suspect, Pastor Okpara, has denied committing the crime, describing the allegation as mere conspiracy and handwork of mischief makers against him and his family.  But the International Federation of women lawyers, Abakaliki Chapter, has shown interest in the matter because of the victim’s age.  FIDA Chairman, Mrs. Grace Iheanacho- Chima was seen by our correspondent in the court running around to ensure justice, but when approached for her reactions, she declined comment.  She said the association would speak after the official arraignment of the suspect. 