. Military redeploys Boko Haram war commander, 12 generals The Nigerian Army on Tuesday redeployed no fewer than 13 Major Generals and Brigadier Generals, including the Theatre Commander of Operation Lafiya Dole, Maj. Gen. Olusegun Adeniyi, who has now been replaced with Maj. Gen. Faruk Yahaya. Adeniyi, who was seen two days ago in a viral video, reportedly complaining about the state of military fighting equipment in the North-East, has been moved to the Nigerian Army Resource Centre as a Senior Research Fellow. The postings, according to a release, were to “rekindle the spirit of professionalism and were approved by the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai” in a routine exercise intended to reinvigorate the system. The acting Director, Army Public Relations, Col. Sagir Musa, said, “The major highlight of the posting includes; the posting and appointment of Maj. Gen. A.C Agundu from Special Task Force, Operation Safe Haven, to the Nigerian Army Resource Centre, Abuja, as a Senior Research Fellow; Maj. Gen. H.I Bature, from the Defence Headquarters, Liaison Office National Assembly, Abuja, to the Army Headquarters, Department of Civil-Military Affairs and appointed Chief of Civil-Military Affairs. “Also, Maj. Gen. U.M Mohammed from Nigerian Army Property Limited to the Office of the Chief of Army Staff and appointed Special Adviser, Nigerian Army University, Biu. Maj. Gen. F. Yahaya has been moved from Headquarters, 1 Division, Kaduna, to Headquarters, Theatre Command, Operation Lafiya Dole, Maiduguri and appointed Commander, while Maj. Gen. O. G. Adeniyi is redeployed from Headquarters, Theatre Command to the NARC as a Senior Research Fellow.” The army spokesman also listed redeployments that affected some Brigadier Generals and some colonels in the military. “All the postings and appointments take effect from April 1, 2020. While wishing all the officers well in their respective appointments, the Chief of Army Staff enjoins them to take their new responsibilities and appointments seriously and discharge all duties professionally with utmost loyalty to the country.” 