…urges FG to suspend VAT collection immediately National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, says Nigeria’s health care system cannot withstand a coronavirus pandemic on the scale being experienced in America and Europe. He, therefore, urged the government and the citizens to do everything to curb the spread of the virus. Tinubu said this in a statement he wrote in commemoration of his 68th birthday. The APC national leader said, “The public health care systems of developed nations have been overwhelmed by this virus. They are running out of equipment and healthy doctors. “Our public health care system is much smaller and less equipped than those in Europe and North America. We cannot afford to put undue pressure on our system because it cannot bear the great weight of a pandemic. “Thus, it is incumbent on us to thoroughly implement and obey social safety and distancing techniques so that we halt the spread of the disease and keep hospitalization to the barest possible minimum.” Meanwhile, amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic, Tinubu has also asked the Federal Government to stop collection of the Value Added Tax immediately. Recall that the Federal Government had last month increased VAT from five per cent to 7.5 per cent. However, Tinubu said the government must reduce the sufferings of Nigerians by introducing tax cuts while the Central Bank of Nigeria must reduce interest rates Tinubu added in a statement he wrote in commemoration of his 68th birthday, “Government should announce a tax credit or partial tax reduction for companies or firms. VAT should be suspended for the next two to four months. This will help lower import costs and protect against shortages. “We need to protect the people from food shortages and high prices. As such, we must quickly improve farm-to-market delivery of agricultural produce. Also, government should initiate a crash program to decrease spoilage of agricultural produce by construction of storage facilities in local marketplaces in and around major cities and towns throughout the country.” 