. TETFUND to establish simulation labs in six geo-political zones Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission, NUC, Prof. Abubakar Rasheed has said that the commission will continue to deepen it’s collaboration with the National Postgraduate Medical College to produce quality medical graduates. He disclosed this at the investiture of the college’s 21st President held at the weekend. According to him, the commission will soon forward a memo to the Federal Executive Council through the Federal Ministry of Education to request government recognition of the College as apex medical university in Nigeria without changing the mandate, the law and the vision. “It is just to give it additional statuses of producing qualified medical personnel in medical field.” Rasheed added that the recognition, when granted, would allow the college to award its own degrees in clinical sciences in addition to its regular mandate of training fellows and other postgraduate students as allowed by law. “It will also allow the college to be a beneficiary of Tertiary Education Trust fund, TETfund, intervention. That way, I am happy to announce that on the recommendation of NUC, TETfund has accepted to establish state of the arts simulation laboratories in six universities in the six geo-political zones in the country,” he said. The Executive Secretary also disclosed that it would take place this year in line with the aspiration of the college. “The simulation lab each of them cited in one geo-political zone and this is just the first one. This intention is that every year, TETfund will set aside fund to establish and equip one simulation laboratories and hopefully in the next two years, most universities offering medical sciences in the country will benefit from this,” he stated. Commending the College in its quest to move medical education forward, Prof Rasheed said the commission was proud of what the medical practitioners in the university system were doing, their contribution to medical education and to the overall management of the university system in the country. He listed management proposals to engage itself in the next two years in moving the College forward Earlier in his inaugural address, the newly installed President of the National Postgraduate Medical College, Dr. Musa Muhammed Borodo, said the new management in the next two years in moving the college forward would encourage emergency lifesaving skills acquisition programme. “An important area of skills acquisition by postgraduate doctors is their ability to respond to dire emergencies through the application of prompt live saving measures to  patients in sudden unexpected clinical situations such as road traffic accidents or sudden cardio- respiratory insufficiency to mention a few. He added that the need for these skills was ever increasing in clinical practices sequel to increasing recklessness in driving, often under the influence of drugs, increasing sectarian crises as well as other life threatening emergencies from non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, hypertension, kidney and liver failure, which were steadily increasing in the Nigerian environment of medical practice due to adoption of Western lifestyle. “To address this menace, College would vigorously pursue additional training of its Fellows to acquire further proficiency as trainers, in ATLS and ACLS to more efficiently impart such skills to our residents in training in all our accredited training hospitals in the country. Senate has already directed that proficiency in this area by residents would be part of the eligibility criteria in Part I exams of the College from 2021,” he said. Other areas of focus, according to him, is the international linkages programme and regional cooperation of Postgraduate Medical Colleges, Developing National health research priorities, College as Regulator of Medical Residency Training Act, Introduction of MD program for clinicians and completion of the College capital works, among others. The Minister of State for Health, Prof. Olorunimbe Mamora, in his address, commended the college for living up to expectations of producing fellows that could compete with others in the world. “The caliber of trained personnel from the college regularly is responsible for the various quality services in our health sector,” the minister said. He urged the new president to bring to bear his age-long administrative skill to boost the image of the college as well as its core mandate and values for the smooth running of the college. 