THERE are indications that the Presidential Candidate of the African Democratic Congress in the 2019 election, Obadiah Mailafia, may appeal a court judgement, which dismissed his application against further harassment by the Police. A reliable source close to Mailafia told The Point on Tuesday that he would have to appeal the judgment because it was glaring that some people were bent on “holding” him for making the statements on Boko Haram sponsors credited to him. “Obviously, he would have to appeal the judgement. They got the court to throw away the case. It seems they want him nabbed by all means. He will consider all options, including appealing,” the source, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, owing to the sensitivity of the matter, told our correspondent. A public affairs analyst, based in Abuja, Olabintan Oyeniyi, however, urged the Federal Government to tread cautiously as regards the Mailafia issue, saying this could easily be termed as molestation. He said, “He is in order to apply to stop further harassment by the Police after being interrogated again and again by the Department of State Services. Government can restrict this investigation to one of its security agencies. If all of them decide to call him everyday, that would amount to molestation. “Mailafia has said what he will say. The Government should do its findings like Prof. Wole Soyinka said and tell us its findings. This is when the findings would be weighed beside Mailafia’s claims.” When contacted, the former CBN deputy governor declined to comment. “I need to confer with my lawyers to reach a concrete decision,” Mailafia told The Point. The DSS had, shortly after the video of the interview Mailafia granted Nigeria Info went viral, invited him to its Jos office. He was released the same day after about six hours of interrogation, but invited two more times for further questioning. Mailafia had said in the interview that he got his information about sponsors of the terrorists from some repentant Boko Haram fighters, noting that a northern governor was the Commander of the terrorist group. 