MEMBERS, supporters and leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party stormed the MKO Abiola Democracy Park in Akure, the Ondo State capital, to kick-start the the governorship campaign of the party’s candidate, Eyitayo Jegede, for the October 10 election. Jegede is contesting against incumbent Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi, of the Zenith Labour Party. Other governorship candidates are Dapo Adelegan of the African Democratic Congress, and Martin Olateru Olagbegi of the Action Democratic Party, among others. The Chairman of the PDP Campaign Council for the Ondo State election, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, welcomed the party’s teeming supporters to the rally and urged them to make the sunshine state truly shine by voting PDP on October 10. “Vote out the party that has been lighting candle for you all these years and shine with the PDP,” Makinde said, noting that Jegede was the best candidate to liberate the people of Ondo State from the effects of the poor policies of the current administration. Early dignitaries at the flag-off were the Senator representing Ekiti South Senatorial District, Abiodun Olujimi, and the PDP State Chairman, Fatai Adams. Speaking with The Point’s correspondent, the representative of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, at the rally, Segun Showunmi, said, “Everything suggests that in a free, fair, transparent and violence-free election, PDP should carry the day. The governorship candidate, Eyitayo Jegede, is well loved. “The atmosphere is electric, and the fact that there is general consensus that the incumbent Governor Rotimi Akeredolu has disappointed all by his handling of state affairs is to our advantage.” On what he would say about the actual preparation of the party for victory come October 10, Sowunmi said, “The preparation of PDP is as should be expected of a deeply rooted grassroot party.” The National Chairman of PDP, Uche Secondus, said the people should “vote out the governor that has turned the Ondo State Government to family business.” “The only thing left is for Buhari to conduct free and fair elections in Ondo and Edo states. This is the only way out for Buhari so that Nigeria can remember him for something. In economy, they have failed, and they are swimming in corruption,” he said. Olujimi also mounted the podium and urged Ondo people to go out en-masse on election day and vote for the PDP. While thanking them for their support in the last National Assembly and Presidential elections, on behalf of all PDP lawmakers from Ondo State, she warned against violence on election day, saying victory was sure for Jegede, PDP’s candidate. Senator Ayo Akinyelure, Ondo Central, spoke on behalf of the other PDP lawmakers in the state, saying Ondo State is for PDP. Former Governor of Osun State, Olagunsoye Oyinlola, who was among the dignitaries, berated the Federal Government for increasing petrol price and electricity tarriff, saying this was anti-poor. “Let us unite as leaders to ensure PDP takes victory in the coming election. The APC government has failed Nigerians. It is better for them to return us to how they met us,” the Chairman of the Coalition of United Political Parties said. Jegede and his running mate, Gboluga Ikengboju, are expected to kick off their statewide campaign from the venue of the flag-off, into the 18 Local Government Councils of the state. 