Abdul Imoyo, Head, Media Relations of Access Bank Plc, is no doubt a popular name in the media. The name is popular, not because the bearer is a trained journalist, but also because he has carved a niche for himself in his image making career. In a virtually saturated media market, Imoyo has managed to keep the image of his brand, Access Bank in the ‘A’ class, despite daily challenges confronted by all Deposit Money Banks in the country. He seems to have a magic hand that keeps scores of publishers and editors happy with his brand despite limitations. “How he does this remains a mystery to many. He understands the fact that you don’t have to wait for a crisis situation before positioning your brand in the right place. He mixes freely with his colleagues in the media that his brand always becomes theirs to manage as well,” General Manager, Bronze FM, Benin, Bimbo Oyetunde, said. The Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief, New Telegraph, Ayodele Aminu, a longstanding friend and colleague of The Point’s Image Maker for the week, added that it takes a man who knows his onions to balance diverse media needs and still keep his brand strong. “On the job, he is hands-on, and his word is his bond. He knows the terrain,” he said.Despite Imoyo’s reserved personality, he is no doubt one of the best media managers the banking sector has currently. And he does this silently, most times giving the credit to junior staff. Access Bank, at the moment, is rated a top three Deposit Money Bank in terms of media management and customer relations. This feat, many observers have said, cannot be isolated from Imoyo’s commendable efforts in maintaining the right narratives and also nurturing his relationship with colleagues in the media. His experience as a finance journalist has no doubt helped his image making work, being a brand manager for a top Deposit Money Bank. How does Imoyo manage to keep his relationships positive in between very many interests? “Passion for the job that I do, coming from my background as a journalist, and now still working with the same media stakeholders in a core critical and challenging role; and ability to function in an environment that gives me the opportunity to express myself, empowering me with all that is required to deliver. Above all, everyone matters to me,” Abdul said. 