THE Commissioner of Police in Osun State, Undie Adie, has vowed to ensure that security operatives who allegedly chased a youth, identified as Idris Ajibola, to death, are brought to justice. Adie said a team had been set up to investigate the development and urged residents of the state to remain calm and allow peace to reign. Ajibola, aged 21, was involved in a lone accident on Tuesday evening while being allegedly chased by operatives of the Joint Task Force who suspected him to be a “Yahoo Boy”. Ajibola died in the crash that occurred on Oba Adesoji Aderemi East Bypass in Osogbo, Osun State capital while three other occupants of the car sustained severe injuries. The Point gathered that the three injured youths – Raheem Abdullahi, Abdulsalam Adekunle and Dayo – were rushed to an undisclosed hospital by passersby after the JTF officers allegedly fled the accident scene. The car the deceased drove was said to have been trailed by the JTF operatives from Osun Mall, Old Fakunle in Osogbo before it rammed into a ditch beside the road. It was learnt that Ajibola was an apprentice of aluminium fabrication who lived at Ofatedo area of the state before his untimely death. Ajiroba’s death had infuriated some youths in the state who made bon fires in protest of the manner of approach of security agents towards youths in the state. The protesters even attacked a security vehicle at Alekuwodo on Tuesday evening while the protest lasted. Some of the irate youths took Idris’ corpse to the Osun Government House, while some others barricaded Dele Yes Sir, Lameco and Ola-Iya roundabout in protest. The aggrieved youths also resumed the protest on Wednesday morning at Dele Yes Sir and Ofatedo area of the state capital. The CP, while addressing journalists in his office on Wednesday, disclosed that he had set up a team to investigate the matter, assuring residents of the state that anyone found culpable would be brought to book. He said, “I have set up a strong team to commence investigation on the matter. As I speak to you, that team is already out and we shall get to the root of this. I want to assure the people of the state that whoever that is identified with the incident will be brought to book. “I appeal to the youth of the town to have understanding with us and confidence in us that we are not going to disappoint them and we will allow justice to prevail. “While we are looking into those involved, either the police were among or not, one thing I want to say is that our men have been professional. This does not mean that we don’t have bad eggs, but we have always been looking out and bring them to book. But as far as I am concerned, bad eggs among us will be dealt with. We don’t condone any act of indiscipline.” 