… Obaseki, Obadan condole APC, former gov FORMER National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, the party’s candidate in the Edo State Governorship Election, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, and some others, narrowly escaped death on Tuesday, along the Benin/Ore Expressway. The campaign entourage of the party was involved in a fatal road accident just before the Oluku junction. A trailer ran into the entourage of top chieftains of the APC, claiming lives. Two police officers attached to the convoy were said to have died, while other supporters were injured. Ize-Iyamu, as a result, called of a scheduled rally at Usen, The Point gathered. In a statement endorsed by the Chairman of the APC Media Campaign Council, John Mayaki, the campaign said it was suspending the scheduled event, to honour the dead. On behalf of Pastor Ize-Iyamu and the APC, Mayaki condoled with the families of the victims, saying they were not alone in their grief. He pledged that the campaign would do everything within its powers to ameliorate their grief. Reaching out to the families of the policemen involved in the fatal crash, the campaign said Edo would never forget their supreme sacrifice. The statement called on everyone to pray for the soul of dead, and against the recurrence of such tragedies. Meanwhile, Governor Godwin Obaseki has condoled with Oshiomhole and Ize-Iyamu over the unfortunate incident. The governor commiserated with the families of the victims of the crash and prayed that God grants them the fortitude to bear the loss of their loved ones. He said  “I received the news of the accident with shock and commiserate with the former governor of Edo State, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and the candidate of the APC in the forthcoming governorship election, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, over the very unfortunate incident involving their security aides and top chieftains of the party in the campaign team. “While we pray for strength for the families of the deceased persons, we also pray for the quick recovery of those who were injured and are receiving treatment.” Meanwhile, the former Deputy Governor of Edo State, Peter Obadan, said the incident was painful but “behind this anguish and heartache of this day, God hides a smiling face.” He said it would have been more calamitous losing our former National Chairman, but two gallant officers laid down their lives. He noted, “We will ever remember them but the greatest honour they deserve is our victory on the 19th. “We fight not against flesh and blood but against principalities and powers of darkness but be assured that the God we serve has never lost any battle. They desire to stop Comrade from completing and perfecting the race of victory that he is leading but he will triumph and we shall be victorious. “God our Father in whom we trust, we lay before you the families of those who died and we ask Lord that You comfort them Yourself and turn their sorrows in joy and upliftment we pray in Jesus name.” 