A student of Osun State Polytechnic, Iree, Festus Adedoyin Ewejobi, has been discovered lifeless in his hostel room at Popoola, Eyinade area of the polytechnic town. The stench from Ewejobi’s decomposing body, which engulfed the hostel, compelled the Police to break into his room. Eyewitness accounts revealed that the deceased was found dead in the pool of his own blood last Saturday. Sources said residents noticed that the student had injuries on three parts of his body, suggesting that he was stabbed and left to bleed to death by yet to be identified persons. The deceased, who was identified as a Business Administration student of the Daily Part Time programme of the institution, was said to have been out of sight for some days before his corpse was found. One of his neighbours, who preferred anonymity, told The Point that if not for the offensive odour perceived, no one would have known Ewejobi was dead. The source said, “We noticed that we had not been seeing him (deceased) for about four days now. If not for the offensive odour oozing from his room, we wouldn’t have known that he is dead. We had to break the gate and his room’s door before we discovered him lying in the pool of his blood. “I don’t know the cause of his death. But there were some open injuries on his body.” The Police Public Relations Officer, Osun Command, Yemisi Opalola, confirmed the incident, saying that investigation was ongoing. Meanwhile, classmates of the deceased have taken to his social media handle to mourn him. One of them, Matthew Makins, wrote on Ewejobi’s Facebook page: “Rest on in the bosom of the Lord Adedodoyin Festus Ewejobi. Irrespective of what might have transpired that is unknown to us, no one deserves to die like you did. “The mysteries behind your murder and mysterious death is unknown to us except those that murdered you, but God knows. From this moment, do not sleep in your early grave until those involved directly or indirectly in your murder die mysteriously one by one till their entire generation is wiped out on the face of the Earth. Adedoyin, you have got to revenge your death!” 