… ‘resources, logistics required to win are available’ THE Deputy Governor of Ondo.State, Agboola Ajayi, who is the governorship candidate of the Zenith Labour Party, has said a report credited to some ZLP chieftains that he is cash-strapped was sponsored by the All Progressives Congress. He said the report was sponsored by the APC and Governor Rotimi Akeredolu to discourage his supporters, noting that it was untrue that he could not source the necessary resources to launch his governorship campaign. Some ZLP leaders had reportedly said prospective financiers of Agboola’s campaign had yet to release funds. The leaders, who were not named, had said the deputy governor told the party that he had N10bn to execute the election but that he had allegedly not spent up to N10m since he joined the party. Agboola had first defected to the Peoples Democratic Party after dumping APC, but decamped again to ZLP when he lost the PDP primary election to Eyitayo Jegede. Jegede and Akeredolu have since flagged off their campaigns with leaders of the two parties storming Akure for a big show in the last two Saturdays. Reacting, Agboola’s Media Adviser, Allen Sowore, who spoke on behalf of his boss, said the greatest resources required for election were clear sense of mission, grace of God and the unalloyed support and goodwill of the people. The deputy governor insisted that all logistics, strategies and resources required for him to win the October 10 governorship election in favour of ZLP were available and would be deployed without hindrance. He said, “The All Progressives Congress in Ondo State and Governor Rotimi Akeredolu have become so desperate because of the imminent defeat staring at them. “The people of Ondo State and the general public should rest assured that all the shenanigans and chicanery of Akeredolu and APC would bring them nothing but failure and shame because the good people of Ondo State have already taken the right decision to break free from the imposed hardship and economic quagmire orchestrated by the bad policies of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu and his co adventurers in government. “Akeredolu’s present spending habit, which gives an impression that Ondo State is his personal fiefdom shall be halted as the people shall speak on October 10 through their votes.” 