GOVERNOR Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State has assured citizens and residents of the state that his administration will ensure prompt completion of projects, particularly roads, that he said were left uncompleted by his predecessor in office, Senator Ibikunle Amosun. Abiodun said his administration sees road infrastructure as crucial to the socioeconomic transformation of the state. The Governor gave the assurance while speaking with reporters on Wednesday shortly after rounding off an inspection tour of work done on the Panseke – Adigbe Road, Abeokuta, the state capital. He reckoned that people coming to work in the state ought not to go through the pains of bad and hazardous roads, assuring that his administration would continue to prioritise roads issues across the state. He said, “We see road infrastructure as an essential component of development. We have prioritised the issue of roads across the length and breadth of the state, and this is one of the roads we are doing. “This Panseke-Adigbe Road was awarded by the previous administration but was not funded. When I came here when the bridge at Opako collapsed, I promised that this road would be completed. What we are doing here today and across the state is a fufillment of our promise.” Abiodun further explained that aside from the Panseke-Adigbe Road project left uncompleted, the current administration was currently working on the Ijebu Ode-Epe Road; Oba Erinwole Road, Hospital Road in Sagamu; Elite and Lafenwa-Rounda roads. The Governor revealed that the rebranding of Abeokuta-Sagamu Road was to ensure that people coming into the state through the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway continued to enjoy a pleasurable ride down to the state capital after the completion of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. “We have started the Sagamu-Abeokuta Road, and it will be pointless for the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway to be completed and then investors enjoy a pleasurable ride all the way from Lagos, Ibadan or the East without any issue, then the journey between Interchange and Abeokuta becomes a nightmare. So we have started on that road. If not for the pandemic, we would have completed it,” he said. Earlier, the General Project Manager, CCECC, Ogun State, Sewell Zhao, assured of quick completion of the section of the road between the NNPC and Kuto bridge. 