… warns against do-or-die politics OBA of Benin, Omo N’oba N’edo Ukuakpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II, on Wednesday, warned politicians against turning Edo State into a theatre of war ahead of the forthcoming governorship election in the state. The Oba spoke in his palace in Benin City, during a peace meeting with party leaders, including the South-South National Vice Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Dan Orbih; the party’s candidate, Governor Godwin Obaseki; and his deputy, Philip Shaibu. The All Progressives Congress’ leaders in attendance included a former National Chairman of the party, John Odigie-Oyegun; former Edo State Governor, Adams Oshiomhole; the party’s governorship candidate, Osagie Ize-Iyamu; and his running mate, Gani Audi. The monarch said, “What I thought and expected from you was tranquility and smooth ride and not the unprecedented conflict and shootings. We are not happy about your political fight; we cannot fold our arms and watch you fighting. “You are from the same state and from the same ancestors, so why should you be killing yourselves because of a position you will just occupy for four years and leave?” ”I want you to go back to 2015 when former President Goodluck Jonathan, despite the tension, picked his phone and called President Muhammadu Buhari to congratulate him, thereby calming the pre-election tension that was already on,” he told the parties. Oba Ewuare who appealed for a stop to all the shootings in parts of the state, questioned the politicians on the alleged arming of thugs with guns in preparation for the election as he wondered why such incidents should happen, stressing that the election should not be a do-or-die affair. Warning that armed thugs would turn around to become a menace to the society after the elections, Oba Ewuare II said, “Enough is enough…Don’t kill yourselves for the election. Everybody is afraid that the state would be set ablaze during and after the election. Please calm the tension. Don’t turn Edo into a laughing stock.” The Oba then tasked Oyegun and Orbih to calm the tension in the state as he extracted assurances from all and sundry that peace would reign in the state henceforth. Obaseki assured the Omo N’oba that peace and tranquility would reign in the state, saying that as the Chief Security Officer, he had sworn to protect the lives and property of Edo people, and he had been working towards this. Ize-Iyamu also appreciated the Oba for calling the peace meeting, as he stretched a hand of fellowship to Obaseki, who in an embrace patted him on the back. 