THE battle for the Edo State Government House may be a tighter race than most people are imagining. Many indigenes are already praying for a free, fair and violence-free election as the incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki of the Peoples Democratic Congress contests against his main opponent, Osagie Ize-Iyamu of the All Progressives Congress on September 19, 2020. While many have said that the battle is mainly between the former National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole and Obaseki, others are of the opinion that Obaseki may be up against a federal might that could have been to his advantage if he had contested as an APC governor. Some analysts have queued behind Obaseki’s “resolve” to crush godfatherism in Edo politics, while others think he had bitten the finger that fed him “cruelly.” There are, however, certain factors to consider with regard to the three senatorial districts of Edo State to have an idea of how the election may go, analysts say. Edo South
Both incumbent Governor Obaseki and APC guber candidate, Osaze Ize-Iyamu, are from this senatorial district. The Binis, who solely dominate this area, have nothing to fight for, as both Obaseki and Iyamu are their sons. Either way, a Bini man will win the guber race. However, this zone has the highest number of registered voters, meaning both candidates will fight dirty here to gain a healthy advantage. This is a potential flash point area. Edo Central
This zone is dominated by Esan people, who are hoping to produce a successor after the current dispensation. The PDP has traditionally done well here and it remains a good ground for the party. More importantly, Esan people may prefer Obaseki, rather than Iyamu, because this is the shortest route to governorship in four years. Edo North
This is where the most fierce battle will be fought. Oshiomhole and the running mate of the APC’s governorship candidate are from here. Obaseki’s running mate, Shuaibu, is also from here. Both Oshiomhole and Shuaibu would be desperate to win this zone to justify who is more on ground. This zone will be the real flash point, with likely violence taking place. Security agencies must be on red alert, analysts say. 