 A middle-aged man, popularly known as Mr. Anointing, has been handed over to the Police for investigation and prosecution, for sexually abusing an 11-year-old girl, from Ezza North Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. According to the Special Assistant to Ebonyi State Governor on Security and Utility (Capital City), Nchekube Anakor, who arrested and handed over the suspect to the Police, the suspect usually sends the primary 5 pupil, Onyinyechi (surname withheld) on errands and would demand that she brings whatever she bought for him into his room where he carries out his evil plan. The suspect, who is a painter, lives with the girl’s family, in the same compound, close to the Federal High Court Abakaliki. Anakor noted that one Tochuckwu Nwankwegu, and some other people from Disco 12, hinted him about the incident, at about 3:30am on Wednesday July 5, 2020. He said on getting to the compound, he discovered that neighbours, who raised the alarm, had caught the man with the girl, red-handed. He said, “Thanks to Tochukwu Nwankwegu and others from Disco 12. It was like a joke at exactly 3:30am last night, until little Onyinye, an 11-year-old girl, from Ezza North local Government Area, who lives near Federal High Court Abakaliki, opened up on how one Mr. Anointing, a painter, who also lives in the same building, normally took her to his room and sexually abuse her.” The SA said that the suspect, who refused to say anything at the scene of incident, was taken to Kprirkpiri Police Station, Abakaliki, where he was detained. Anakor advised parents to look after their children, especially the female ones, saying, “This is why I have been shouting, look after your children, especially female children. Know what your child is doing, at school and in the house. Monitor her movement; it is highly necessary.” The victim said the day the rapist was caught was not the first day he would abuse her sexually, noting that it had happened many times. “He would always send me to buy something for him, and when I came back, he would tell me to bring it to his room. Each time l entered his room, he would be touching eveywhere. I usually don’t like what he does to me and I did not know how to tell my parents,” she said in Igbo. 