THE Presidential Candidate of the African Democratic Congress in the 2019 election, Obadiah Mailafia, has raised the alarm that some powerful forces want to “silence” him for speaking the truth. He said he was being subjected to political persecution in his country when he had served as a university teacher, banker and international civil servant for 20 years, abroad, without any criminal record. Mailafia, who raised the alarm in a message he personally signed and sent to The Point, in the early hours of Friday, said he had been ordered, for the third time, to appear at the Jos office of the Department of State Services. The former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria had granted an interview to Nigeria Info, saying that a Northern Governor was the Commander of the terrorist group, Boko Haram, in Nigeria, among other claims. The video of the interview went viral and he was invited to the DSS office twice. The Point had reported that his lawyers got an injunction against further harassment by the Police when he was summoned to appear at the Force Headquarters in Abuja. Calling on Nigerians to pray for him, Mailafia said, “Comrades, beloved brethren, I have once again (for the third time) been ordered to appear before the DSS at their Jos HQ this coming Monday 14th September, at 11.00 am. “This is in addition to our battle in court, as my lawyer appears before a Jos High Court today Friday the 11th, seeking a restraining order against the DIG Criminal Investigations Department (CID) who are also pursuing me. “I spent over 20 years of my working life abroad as a university teacher, banker and international civil servant with unblemished record. I have no criminal record — not even a parking ticket. Sadly, it is in my own fatherland that I’m being subjected to criminal investigation and such extreme political persecution. “Please, pray for me. I have reasons to believe that my life is in danger and that some powerful political forces want to silence me forever, for speaking the truth. For speaking on behalf of the holy martyrs — of thousands of innocent children, women, elderly and youths that have been killed in our beloved country. “It is only in our benighted country that a man who speaks from his conscience can be hounded like a common criminal. Please, those of you in the Jos area or who can easily travel to Jos, please kindly mobilise and be there en masse to support me on Monday at 11.00 am as I go once again into the Lions’ Den. “I’m a believer in nonviolence. Please, no one should throw even a little stone on my behalf. Let us become candles of light and peace in this Age of Darkness. Thank you so immensely and may God bless you all.” 