THE Delta State Police Command has declared former Minister of State for Education, Kenneth Gbagi, wanted over an allegation that he ordered the stripping of some workers at his Signatious Hotel as a punishment for a crime (stealing) he allegedly said they committed. The Police said the declaration became important, following Gbagi’s refusal to surrender himself after invitation. A statement titled, “Delta State Police Command Declare Kenneth Agbagi Wanted”, signed by the Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya, said, “Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi was invited by the Commissioner of Police through the Area Commander Warri and DPO Ebrumede Division on September 25th, 2020 for questioning concerning the alleged dehumanising manner in which he ordered some of his staff be stripped naked and physically assaulted. “Kenneth Gbagi personally and severally called and gave the excuse that he has a burial ceremony of his elder sister on Friday 25/9/2020 in which he is a key player, and asked for time to finish with the ceremony on Sunday, thereafter will report at the State Headquarters on Monday, September 28, 2020. These requests were granted on humanitarian ground. “On Monday, September, 28th2020, Kenneth Gbagi called the Commissioner of Police to say that he has a court case to attend to, promising to report at the Police Headquarters in Asaba by 3:00pm; again he was equally obliged. “On the same date, the Commissioner of Police had to call him at about 5:00pm before the same Kenneth Gbagi said he was on his way to the State HQ Asaba.” The command, however, said, “Sadly and unfortunately, Kenneth Gbagi still failed to report; instead he went into the public space to disparage, blackmail and malign the person of the Commissioner of Police and the Nigeria Police Force, Delta State Command for insisting on investigating him. “Having failed to honour his promises, Delta state police command is left with no option than to declare Kenneth Gbagi wanted.” Meanwhile, it was learnt that the Federal High Court, Abuja, had restrained the Inspector General of Police, Commissioner of Police in the state, or their agents from threatening to arrest or detain the former minister, pending the determination of his application for enforcement of his fundamental human rights. 