Revelations from the investigation of corrupt allegations against former Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Ibrahim Magu, by a Presidential Panel and the probe of alleged corrupt practices, over the years, in the Niger Delta Development Commission by the House of Representatives and the Senate, have been a major source of concern to Nigerians at home and abroad. Not a few people have said that it is surprising that such magnitude of revelations could be unfolding under the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, a President who came to power on the mantra of war against corruption. Political analysts are of the view that the decisions taken by the President against those found guilty in the probe of the NDDC and the Presidential Panel that investigated Magu and some top EFCC officials will shape the Buhari administration’s much touted war against corruption. Presidential Panel Vs. Magu
The arrest and investigation of the former EFCC boss came to many Nigerians as a huge surprise. Before his arrest and investigation by a Presidential Panel, Magu was regarded as the face of President Muhammadu Buhari’s anti-corruption drive. While the going was good, Magu cut the picture of a thorough, no nonsense anti-graft warlord. His perceived close relationship with the presidency also gave him the clout to enjoy respect from other African countries. At the height of this, Magu convened an anti-corruption summit that attracted many African leaders to Abuja. He also received accolades and awards from the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation for his efforts in joint operations, aimed at hunting down internet fraudsters across the globe. The 8th Senate relied on a DSS report, which it said implicated him, to deny his confirmation, but despite this, President Buhari retained him in office for almost five years, but in acting capacity. Many were surprised and suspicion built up when President Buhari refused to submit his name for confirmation before the 9th Senate, almost after one year into his second tenure, despite the seeming friendship between Buhari and the Assembly. Though the activities of the Presidential Panel that investigated the alleged corrupt allegations against Magu were not carried out in the open, The Point  gathered that a memo written by the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, accused Magu of diverting recovered looted funds, insubordination and discrepancies in lodgement of recovered loot. It was also gathered that the AGF also accused Magu of failing to provide sufficient evidence for the extradition of former Minister of Petroleum, Diezani Alison-Madueke; sale of seized assets to cronies, associates and friends and issuance of investigative activities to some media outfits prejudicial to some cases. While some analysts believed that the Magu probe saga was nothing but a power play amongst power blocs in the Buhari government, the presidency dismissed such when it issued a statement, saying, “A series of documented allegations were made against Magu, and following a preliminary review of the allegations levelled against Magu and several other members of his staff, there were grounds for a detailed investigation to be conducted.” Justifying the suspension of Magu in a release signed by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Sheu, Buhari said the investigative panel was constituted in compliance with the extant laws governing convening such a body. He said, “As is the proper procedure, when allegations are made against the Chief Executive of an institution, and in this case, an institution that ought to be seen as beyond reproach, the Chief Executive has to step down from his post and allow for a transparent and unhindered investigation. “Meanwhile, Mr. Magu is being availed the opportunity to defend himself and answer the allegations against him. This is how it should be, as is the fact that under the Laws of Nigeria, every citizen is presumed and remains innocent until proven guilty.” ON NDDC AND NASS PROBE
The National Assembly’s probe of the Niger Delta Development Commission was indeed necessary because of series of allegations of corruption within the organisation over the years. The exercise, which is an oversight function of the House of Representatives, was seen as a welcome development by many Nigerians. However, the probe was full of drama, as Nigerians were treated to theatrical excitement while the sitting of the probe lasted. The allegation that the NDDC had spent about N81 billion in eight or nine months could not be swept under the carpet. There was an allegation that billions of naira were spent to buy COVID-19 equipment. There was another allegation that members of the NDDC management shared about N1.3 billion as COVID-19 palliatives. There was yet an allegation that billions of naira were paid to a media consultancy firm for the image laundering of the NDDC. From revelations by the NDDC’s Acting Executive Director, Projects, Cairo Ojougboh, that getting a contract from the NDDC in the past was like winning a lottery; to the collapse of the Acting MD of the NDDC, Kemebradikumo Pondei, during hearing; and the revelation by the Minister of Niger Delta, Godswill Akpabio, that majority of contracts in the NDDC were awarded to the members of the National Assembly, Nigerians were fed with an interesting drama around the sorry situation of the Nigerian public sector. Ojougboh also revealed that the NDDC was indebted to the tune of over N2 trillion, owing to inflated projects.
The grilling by the lawmakers during the hearing, according to analysts, might have contributed to Pondei slumping right in the hall. During the investigation, a lawmaker, Shehu Koko, had asked Pondei to explain the N642 million paid to a company known as Clear Point Communication. The lawmaker also asked the NDDC chief to explain the N536 million paid to Save Life Campaign in the oil-rich region and to prove that they were all budgeted for in the 2019 Appropriation Act. Pondei told the lawmakers that N642 million was paid to Clear Point Communication to train locals and to help locate and identify NDDC projects in the area. He, however, could not confirm that the payments were budgeted for, asking the lawmakers to give him time to provide the budget. In the process, he collapsed, sweating profusely and was rushed out of the venue of the hearing.
This incident was given different interpretations by many Nigerians. While some saw it as a genuine health issue, others believed it was a make-believe act by Pondei to save himself from further embarrassment. Revelations from the Senate ad hoc committee, set up to unravel the alleged financial recklessness of the Interim Management Committee, were also overwhelming. The Committee lamented the extra-budgetary spending of the IMC, urging the President to immediately dissolve the committee. Many people contacted by The Point, expressed happiness that President Muhammadu Buhari had shown interest in the NDDC’s probe, and believed that whatever report the National Assembly turned in, should serve as a fillip for the Presidency to take action. President Buhari, according to them, should also detail the anti-corruption agencies to investigate the NDDC and take action, while those found culpable should be brought to book. IMPLICATIONS OF ALLEGATIONS
To a chieftain of the Pan-Yoruba Socio-Political Group, Afenifere, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, the revelations coming out of various probes and investigations are no surprise. Adebanjo said nobody should praise President Muhammadu Buhari for the recent investigation of allegations of corrupt practices against Magu, adding that many people, including the Department of State Services, had been saying these for years, but that the President did not act. “I don’t buy the idea that Buhari has done something special. What has he done that he has not been warned about? I only thank God that people have been vindicated. Thank God that these things are being exposed. See the allegations being made against Magu alone,” Adebanjo said. He said it was sad that someone in charge of Buhari’s anti corruption war was being alleged to have relooted recovered loot. He recalled a statement by the former Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, that the sins of anybody being investigated for corruption would be immediately forgiven when he moved to the APC. To the former Governor of Ekiti State and a Chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, Ayodele Fayose, the President, if truly he is fighting corruption, should punish whoever is indicted in the various probes and investigations. He said, “With this level of fraud exposed in NDDC, Buhari must sack Akpabio now. The President can’t continue to treat the looting of public treasury as a family affair and his fight against corruption as an instrument of persecution against opposition figures. “By keeping in his government the likes of Akpabio and the NDDC MD, Prof Pondei, who went about celebrating the success of their National Assembly drama with hot pepper soup and assorted drinks, the President will only be reinforcing the conclusion that he supports corruption.” There have also been calls by the National Assembly for the dissolution of the Interim Management Committee of the NDDC and the return of the NDDC to the Presidency for direct supervision. Speaking with The Point, James Ojo, a Public Affairs Commentator based in Abuja, said Buhari should use the current probes and investigations to show Nigerians that he is really fighting corruption. “Buhari should know that mere statements are not enough. That Magu’s suspension is coming when his tenure is almost coming to an end is nothing to be excited about. What Nigerians expect of his administration is to ensure the allegations against Magu are thoroughly investigated and adequate punishment meted out where necessary,” he said.
Human Rights and Political Activist, Sola Olawale, said there must be no cover up, noting that punishment must be meted out to whoever deserved it. “Like Ayodele Fayose, former governor of Ekiti State, aptly puts it, ‘This investigation must not end up as their usual paddy-paddy arrangement.’ It should not end up as a tool just to remove Magu because removing him will not be enough, the loots already ‘relooted’ must be ‘re-recovered’ and those who ‘relooted’ the loots brought to book,” he said. The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project has also urged the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, to urgently publish all reports of completed public hearings and corruption probes by the National Assembly since the return of democracy in 1999. “Publishing the reports of hearings and probes would bolster public trust and confidence in the oversight functions and dispel the perception that many of these hearings and probes are politically motivated and serve personal interest, rather than the general public interest,” SERAP said. Nigerians are eagerly awaiting the reports from the National Assembly as well as the final report of the Ayo Salami-led Presidential panel of investigation to determine whether the various probes were just stage plays to divert Nigeria’s attention from a hidden agenda soon to be made public. 