The Ekiti State chapter of the All Progressives Congress has said that the activities of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party in the state, in recent time, have shown that the party’s fortune is dwindling and will soon go into oblivion. Speaking with The Point, Governor Kayode Fayemi’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Samuel Oluwalana, said, “It is not unusual for a political party to be out of government as no condition is permanent, but when such a party now uses its period of interregnum to embark on things that may likely jeopardise the future of its members calls for concern. “From available record, since the imposition of the caretaker committee on the PDP in the state, it has continued to move from grace to disgrace. The committee members, rather than facing their assignment, are only interested in causing trouble in the state by dishing out lies of high magnitude to the general public.” Oluwalana said the caretaker committee of the PDP had come to further disunite and cause disaffection among the party members, add more salt to their injuries and inflict deeper injury on the wounds that may take a very long time to heal. He stated, “This is a committee that has not seen anything good in the administration of Dr Kayode Fayemi and the All Progressives Congress and, rather than embarking on constructive criticism expected of a formidable opposition, it has been tales of lies upon lies. “The party’s caretaker committee’s conducts had boosted the belief that the entire party structure lacks focus and there is confusion in high places as well as its entire structure. Or how can one describe a situation whereby the national headquarters of the party sends a bunch of misfits into the state?” He said from day one, the committee was dis-jointed and had no clear-cut agenda except to abuse the state government whose character and workings they knew nothing about. Oluwalana noted, “Just weeks after their arrival, they started a war amongst themselves with the Chairman disowning his Secretary publicly. The national secretariat, in a strange twist, decided that in order to settle the matter, another set of four ‘strangers’ must be sent to diffuse tension among its juveniles. “The APC, as a well organised and focused political party, had been built on the solid rock and no amount of campaign of calumny and orchestrated lies can make it sway from its path to provide good governance to the people of Ekiti State.” Oluwalana said, right from the starting point, the mission of APC in the state was well spelt out and till the last day, it would be no retreat no surrender. He said, “The wailers can continue to blink to justify their godfathers’ pay. For a party that finds it absolutely difficult and tasking to organise itself and put the house in order, how then will it be able to point out flaws in government, that is if there is any. “The APC in the state, for the umpteenth time, encourages and counsels the opposition PDP, especially members of the caretaker committee to first remove the logs in their eyes before they attempt to remove the pecks in others’ eyes. Enough of the lies.” 