Two of the three suspected killers of Nigeria’s first female combat helicopter pilot, Tolulope Arotile, were set free by the Kaduna State Magistrate Court 1, last Thursday, to prevent an evidential conjuncture totally unknown to the Nigerian Criminal Justice System, the authorities have explained. Based on the advice of the Director of Public Prosecution, however, the Public Relations Officer, Kaduna State Police Command, ASP Muhammad Jalige, said the 1st suspect, Nehemiah Adejor, would be arraigned at the State High Court for culpable homicide (not punishable with death) on September 3, 2020. Adejor drove the car that killed Arotile.
Folorunsho Igbekele Faith and Gbayegun Deji, who were passengers in the car that was driven by the 1st suspect, Nehemiah, were released, based on the submission that the entire investigation did not disclose any offence against them other than being passengers in the vehicle of the 1st suspect. To prosecute them, therefore, would be embarking on an evidential conjuncture totally unknown to the Criminal Justice System, the legal advice said. The Prosecution Counsel, DSP Martins D. Leo, prayed the court to discharge the 2nd and 3rd suspects, owing to the fact that investigation did not find them wanting. Based on this, and legal advice by the state’s Director of Public Prosecution, Bayero Dari, Magistrate Benjamin Hassan discharged the 2nd and 3rd suspects, Folorunsho Igbekele Faith and Gbayegun Deji, saying they had no case to answer. Legal advice by the Director of Public Prosecution, read in the open court, indicated that there was no premeditation as regards the death of Flying Officer Arotile. It, however, suggested that there was sufficient evidence to prosecute the 1st suspect, Nehemiah Adejor, for culpable homicide, not punishable with death. The legal advice read,“On the 14th day of July 2020, the suspects, all male of Auta Alkali Farin Gida, Mando Kaduna, inside a Kia Sorento with Registration No AZ 478 MKA, Kaduna, being driven by the 1st suspect, sited the deceased (NAF/4512F Flying officer Tolulope Arotile) at NAF Base Kawo, Kaduna, whom they identified as their school mate at Air force Secondary school, Kaduna. “The 1st suspect, full of enthusiasm, recklessly reversed the car in order to meet the deceased, and in the process, ran over her, consequent upon which the deceased lay unconsciously on the ground. The deceased was rushed to NAFX64 Base Hospital for medical attention but was later pronounced dead by the medical doctors at the Hospital. “The suspects were arrested and taken to 461 NAF Hospital Kaduna for toxicology test and results were all negative. They were later transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Kaduna on the 24th day of July 2020 for further discreet investigation. “Police investigation revealed that all the suspects attended the same secondary school with the deceased and upon sighting her, the 1st suspect recklessly reversed the car and eventually ran over the deceased which led to her untimely death. “The 1st suspect admitted in his cautionary statement that on the 14th day of July 2020, he was together with the two other suspects in a car KIA Sorento he was driving, when he saw the deceased walking along the roadside of the Air force Base. “He informed the other suspects who screamed enthusiastically after which he stopped and started reversing the car in order to meet the deceased and exchange pleasantries; in the process of which he mistakenly ran over her and she later died. He denied having any premeditated plan to kill her. “The 2nd suspect also stated in his cautionary statement that on that fateful day, he, along with the 1st and 3rd suspects, went on hangout and on their way back, the 1st suspect cited the deceased whom they later saw and became extensively happy. That the 1st suspect stopped the car and began to reverse the same in order to meet up with the deceased and exchange greetings since they had not met in a long time. “That when he noticed the 1st suspect was driving speedily off the road he cautioned him, but unfortunately, he got confused and ran over the deceased. He outrightly denied any arrangement to cause the death of the deceased. “He added that being a trained nurse, he assisted in resuscitating the deceased at the hospital but all attempt proved abortive until she was pronounced clinically dead. “In his cautionary statement, the 3rd suspect corroborated the statement of the 2nd suspect in all material particulars as to the events of the 14th day of July 2020, as it relates to the death of Flying Officer Tolutope Arotile at NAF Base Kaduna. “It is clear also from the investigation done; the 2nd and 3rd suspects were passengers and friends of the 1st suspect who was driving the vehicle. From the foregoing, there is sufficient evidence to prosecute the 1st suspect for the offence of Culpable Homicide not punishable with death, contrary to Section 191 of the Kaduna State Penal Code Law, 2017, as there is no premeditation in the death of the deceased. “There is however insufficient evidence against the 2nd and 3rd suspects as the entire investigation did not disclose any offence against them other than being passengers in the vehicle of the 1st suspect. “To prosecute them, therefore, will be embarking on an evidential conjuncture totally unknown to our Criminal Justice System; they can be discharged accordingly pursuant to Section 125 (6) (e) of the Kaduna State Administration of Criminal Justice Law, 2017, and thereafter, be used as prosecution witnesses in the trial of the 1st suspect.” Two of the three suspected killers of Nigeria’s first female combat helicopter pilot, Tolulope Arotile, were set free by the Kaduna State Magistrate Court 1, last Thursday, to prevent an evidential conjuncture totally unknown to the Nigerian Criminal Justice System, the authorities have explained. Based on the advice of the Director of Public Prosecution, however, the Public Relations Officer, Kaduna State Police Command, ASP Muhammad Jalige, said the 1st suspect, Nehemiah Adejor, would be arraigned at the State High Court for culpable homicide (not punishable with death) on September 3, 2020. Adejor drove the car that killed Arotile.
Folorunsho Igbekele Faith and Gbayegun Deji, who were passengers in the car that was driven by the 1st suspect, Nehemiah, were released, based on the submission that the entire investigation did not disclose any offence against them other than being passengers in the vehicle of the 1st suspect. To prosecute them, therefore, would be embarking on an evidential conjuncture totally unknown to the Criminal Justice System, the legal advice said. The Prosecution Counsel, DSP Martins D. Leo, prayed the court to discharge the 2nd and 3rd suspects, owing to the fact that investigation did not find them wanting. Based on this, and legal advice by the state’s Director of Public Prosecution, Bayero Dari, Magistrate Benjamin Hassan discharged the 2nd and 3rd suspects, Folorunsho Igbekele Faith and Gbayegun Deji, saying they had no case to answer. Legal advice by the Director of Public Prosecution, read in the open court, indicated that there was no premeditation as regards the death of Flying Officer Arotile. It, however, suggested that there was sufficient evidence to prosecute the 1st suspect, Nehemiah Adejor, for culpable homicide, not punishable with death. The legal advice read,“On the 14th day of July 2020, the suspects, all male of Auta Alkali Farin Gida, Mando Kaduna, inside a Kia Sorento with Registration No AZ 478 MKA, Kaduna, being driven by the 1st suspect, sited the deceased (NAF/4512F Flying officer Tolulope Arotile) at NAF Base Kawo, Kaduna, whom they identified as their school mate at Air force Secondary school, Kaduna. “The 1st suspect, full of enthusiasm, recklessly reversed the car in order to meet the deceased, and in the process, ran over her, consequent upon which the deceased lay unconsciously on the ground. The deceased was rushed to NAFX64 Base Hospital for medical attention but was later pronounced dead by the medical doctors at the Hospital. “The suspects were arrested and taken to 461 NAF Hospital Kaduna for toxicology test and results were all negative. They were later transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Kaduna on the 24th day of July 2020 for further discreet investigation. “Police investigation revealed that all the suspects attended the same secondary school with the deceased and upon sighting her, the 1st suspect recklessly reversed the car and eventually ran over the deceased which led to her untimely death. “The 1st suspect admitted in his cautionary statement that on the 14th day of July 2020, he was together with the two other suspects in a car KIA Sorento he was driving, when he saw the deceased walking along the roadside of the Air force Base. “He informed the other suspects who screamed enthusiastically after which he stopped and started reversing the car in order to meet the deceased and exchange pleasantries; in the process of which he mistakenly ran over her and she later died. He denied having any premeditated plan to kill her. “The 2nd suspect also stated in his cautionary statement that on that fateful day, he, along with the 1st and 3rd suspects, went on hangout and on their way back, the 1st suspect cited the deceased whom they later saw and became extensively happy. That the 1st suspect stopped the car and began to reverse the same in order to meet up with the deceased and exchange greetings since they had not met in a long time. “That when he noticed the 1st suspect was driving speedily off the road he cautioned him, but unfortunately, he got confused and ran over the deceased. He outrightly denied any arrangement to cause the death of the deceased. “He added that being a trained nurse, he assisted in resuscitating the deceased at the hospital but all attempt proved abortive until she was pronounced clinically dead. “In his cautionary statement, the 3rd suspect corroborated the statement of the 2nd suspect in all material particulars as to the events of the 14th day of July 2020, as it relates to the death of Flying Officer Tolutope Arotile at NAF Base Kaduna. “It is clear also from the investigation done; the 2nd and 3rd suspects were passengers and friends of the 1st suspect who was driving the vehicle. From the foregoing, there is sufficient evidence to prosecute the 1st suspect for the offence of Culpable Homicide not punishable with death, contrary to Section 191 of the Kaduna State Penal Code Law, 2017, as there is no premeditation in the death of the deceased. “There is however insufficient evidence against the 2nd and 3rd suspects as the entire investigation did not disclose any offence against them other than being passengers in the vehicle of the 1st suspect. “To prosecute them, therefore, will be embarking on an evidential conjuncture totally unknown to our Criminal Justice System; they can be discharged accordingly pursuant to Section 125 (6) (e) of the Kaduna State Administration of Criminal Justice Law, 2017, and thereafter, be used as prosecution witnesses in the trial of the 1st suspect.” 