COMMISSIONER for Water Resources in Kogi State, Abdulmumuni Danga, has been charged to court for alleged rape. The Police in Abuja accused Danga of alleged rape and brutalisation of one Elizabeth Oyeniyi in Lokoja, Kogi State. In a seven-count charge, filed against him at a Federal High Court, Abuja, the police accused him of rape and brutality, among others. The charge sheet, signed by the State Prosecutor, ACP Effiong Asuquo, filed on September 4, 2020, indicated that Danga would be prosecuted by the police on behalf of the Federal Government. He will be arraigned alongside one Success Omadivi, 35. The charge sheet read in part, “That you Abdulmumuni Danga ‘M’ with other persons now at large; on or about the 29th day of March, 2020 at Lokoja; within the jurisdiction of this honourable court did falsify an audio recording purporting same to be the audio of Dr Chinonyerem Welle, Medical Director, Police Hospital, Area 1, Garki, Abuja, saying that she issued medical report for the rape and assault of Elizabeth Onyeniyi ‘F’ unlawfully; and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 7 of the Violence Against Persons (Prohibition) Act, 2015. “That you Abdulmumuni Danga ‘M’, Success Omadavi ‘F’ with other persons now at large; on or about the 29th day of March, 2020 at Lokoja; within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, did falsify an audio recording purporting same to be a lady talking to another female, saying that Elizabeth Onyeniyi ‘F’ confessed to her that she was not raped by the defendant, Abdulmumuni Danga ‘M’ but that it was Natasha that asked her to say she was raped; and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 7 of the Violence Against Persons (Prohibition) Act, 2015.” The case was reportedly transferred to Abuja on the suggestion of the investigating police officer, Amaka Okoh, who noted that if the case was prosecuted anywhere in Kogi State, Ms. Oyeniyi and other witnesses could be victimised by the accused. She said, in an affidavit submitted to the court, that “in view of the above security concern, it is desirable that this matter be tried in the Federal Capital Territory High Court, Abuja.” Oyeniyi had accused Danga of brutalising her after allegedly raping her severally on March 29. She added that he threatened to kill her but for the presence of her child. 