THE Southern Kaduna Peoples Union has called on Nigerians and the international community to rise against further persecution of the Presidential Candidate of the African Democratic Congress in the 2019 election, Obadiah Mailafia, over his comments on the killings in Kaduna State. Condemning the third invitation to Mailafia by the Department of State Services, the Union said “should any evil be visited on him, the DSS should be held responsible.” In a statement on Sunday, by the National President, SOKAPU, Jonathan Asake, the Union warned that nothing must happen to their illustrious son. The Point had reported that Mailafia, on Friday, raised the alarm that some powerful forces were trying to “silence” him forever for “speaking the truth.” He had said in an interview with Nigeria Info that a Northern Governor was the Commander of the terrorist group, Boko Haram, among other claims. Insinuating a case of double standards, the union,, in the statement titled, “SOKAPU’s stand on Dr. Obed Mailafia’s invitation by the DSS”, said, “For instance, officials of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria had in many instances claimed responsibility over deadly attacks on communities, but the response from the security agencies has always remained an embarrassing silence… “Amidst the bloodshed and waves of attack that rocked the country in June 2018, the National President of Miyetti Allah Kauta Hore, Alhaji Abdullahi Bello Bodejo, declared in a media interview that Nigeria belongs to the Fulani. “Reacting to Bodejo’s reckless and unguarded statement, the Northern chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria immediately called for his arrest and interrogation, but the DSS played the ostrich and never invited him for questioning till date.” The statement said, “The attention of the leadership of Southern Kaduna Peoples Union has been drawn to yet another invitation extended to the former presidential candidate of the African Democratic Congress, Dr. Obadiah Mailafia, to report to the Plateau State office of the Department of State Service (DSS) on Monday September 14, 2020 for yet another session of questioning. “As Dr. Mailafia prepares to honour the third invitation tomorrow, September 14, 2020, SOKAPU wishes to place on record that should any evil be visited on him, the DSS should be held responsible. SOKAPU calls on men and women of good conscience in Nigeria and the international community to rise up against this apparent dictatorship and stop further persecution of Dr. Mailafia over his audacity to stand up for truth and patriotism.” It added, “We call on Nigerian patriots and groups engaged in the battle for a better tomorrow for our nation not to relent but speak up against the deliberate attempt at bullying a voice that has courageously spoken for us all. “We believe that the lives of Southern Kaduna people matter, and there can be no acceptance of this reality than for all to unite and stop further persecution and hounding of Dr. Mailafia for daring to expose the forces that threaten our corporate existence as a nation.” 