SOME natives of Auchi, in Edo State, have raised the alarm over an alleged plot by the Deputy Governor of Edo State, Phillip Shaibu, to facilitate the dethronement of the Otaru of Auchi, His Royal Highness, Alhaji A.H. Momoh. The plot, which the indigenes said had been on since 2018, was said to have been exposed through a leaked letter, dated June 19, 2018, reportedly written by the Deputy Governor, in which he preferred a charge of unwholesome conduct against the Otaru. Sources close to the development said that although there had been no love lost between the Otaru and the Deputy Governor, who is from Jattu, a neighbouring town to Auchi, the leaked letter to the Otaru, ignited anger at the weekend. Political analysts are of the opinion that the development, if not carefully addressed, might cause a set back for the Peoples Democratic Party’s Godwin Obaseki/Phillip Shaibu governorship ticket in the form of protest votes by the Auchi people, who account for substantial voter population in Edo North. In the letter, dated June 19, 2018, seen by The Point, the Deputy Governor complained to Governor Obaseki about the “unwholesome way and manner the Otaru of Auchi, His Royal Highness, Alhaji A.H. Momoh conducted himself on Saturday, 16th June, 2018 at the Ikelebe Sports Arena, Auchi, a public field during the Grand Reception Ceremony for the Executive Chairman, Etsako West Local Government Council, Hon. Yakubu O. Musa, which I attended and represented Your Excellency.” The Deputy Governor said, “I got to the venue of the ceremony while it was under way and while exchanging pleasantries round the dignitaries and Traditional Rulers/Chiefs, I first noticed that the Otaru of Auchi refused to reciprocate when I stretched/offered my hand to greet him. “When I was requested to make my remarks at the event, I enjoined all present to always work with the Council Chairman to ensure success in his administration and thanked them for the support for the Godwin Obaseki-led Government. “Hardly had I sat down that the Otaru, Alhaji A.H. Momoh requested for the microphone and retorted that he ‘wants to say something’.  He opened up to berate me and the Government of the State that we have taken Auchi land to Jattu-Uzairue and that Auchi has been marginalised by the State Government, stating that they would not accept that from anybody and that he will fight with all he had to get that land back.” The Deputy Governor stated further, “He (Otaru) concluded by blaming me for the removal of a signboard erected at the transmission sub-station because it was bearing ‘Auchi’. “In the same vein, one Alhaji Usman Abuda, the Dan Iya of Auchi Kingdom, an ally of the Otaru, was shouting at the top of his voice that the Auchi people have lost confidence in the Government of Godwin Obaseki and passing uncomplimentary remarks on my person; all because of the opening of the floodgate by the Otaru. “On this note, I rose to speak a second time and tried to correct the negative remarks made by the Otaru against me and the Government by addressing him as my father, leader and friend of the Government. “While reiterating that we are a friend of the Palace and maintaining that the piece of land in question neither belongs to Auchi nor Jattu-Uzairue, hence Government took over the piece of land to maintain peace and security in the Area, the Otaru of Auchi, Alhaji A.H. Momoh and his Chiefs walked out on me while I was still talking.” Although, he was not reported to have said anything, there were indications in some circles that the royal father might use his significant influence to mobilise Auchi people to vote against the PDP governorship ticket of Obaseki/Shaibu because of the fear that the Deputy Governor might carry out his plot against him in his second term in office. 