FORMER Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress and political activist, Timi Frank, has commended the United States Government for placing a Visa ban on election riggers in Nigeria, especially during the conduct of the November 2019 governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states. He said the step would further strengthen Nigeria’s democracy. Frank, who made his position on the development known in a statement on Tuesday, also called on the US Government to include the wives and children of all affected politicians, security operatives and judges who helped to validate fraudulent election results at Tribunals and the appellate courts. He recalled that he made a similar appeal in a statement in July 2019. He noted that election riggers were enemies of Nigeria as their actions were responsible, in part, for the insecurity, poverty and social dislocation in the country. Frank said, “The US Government must be commended for this move which is in furtherance of its commitment to strengthening democracy in Nigeria as it would help checkmate individuals who have operated with impunity at the expense of the generality of the Nigerian populace. “This Visa Restrictions should also be extended to recalcitrant Judges, INEC officials, Security agencies and political party chieftains who aided and abetted the rigging of the Kogi and Bayelsa States governorship elections while those who perpetuate similar crimes in the Edo and Ondo polls should not be spared. “For our democracy to survive, all true lovers of democracy must ensure that the elections in Edo and Ondo states produce genuine leaders who will pilot the affairs of these two states.” The Bayelsa-born political activist also urged the Government of the United Kingdom and the European Union to emulate the action of the United States’ Government by placing a similar visa ban on judges, security agents and their leaders, and appointees of government who have been undermining the nation’s democracy through subversion of election processes. He said they should also ensure that members of the National Assembly and other persons who would want to partake in the destruction of the nation’s nascent democracy were prevented from doing so. 