THE Independent National Electoral Commission has said it will recruit a total of 17,000 ad hoc staff for the October 10, governorship election in Ondo State. The Commission said 15,000 would be recruited from the National Youths Service Corps, while 2000 would be staff of federal tertiary institutions, who would be engaged as supervising presiding officers, collation and returning officers. This was disclosed by INEC’s National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, at a one-day workshop for journalists on Election Processes and Procedures. Voting during the Ondo and Edo elections will commence at 8:30am and close at 2:30pm, according to Okoye. He berated a lawyer, Femi Emodamori, for issuing an open letter asking the electoral body to publish personal details of the Deputy Governor of Ondo State, and candidate of the Zenith Labour Party, Agboola Ajayi. He said the lawyer should be trained on how to obtain certified true copies of credentials of candidates from the electoral body. The Commission has never denied anybody details of candidates, provided the application is properly done, according to him. Okoye, however, said the commission was prepared to conduct the Ondo election in line with COVID-19 protocols, adding that basic Personal Protective Equipment, including face masks, sanitisers, infrared thermometers and disinfectants would be available at polling units for staff. THE Independent National Electoral Commission has said it will recruit a total of 17,000 ad hoc staff for the October 10, governorship election in Ondo State. The Commission said 15,000 would be recruited from the National Youths Service Corps, while 2000 would be staff of federal tertiary institutions, who would be engaged as supervising presiding officers, collation and returning officers. This was disclosed by INEC’s National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, at a one-day workshop for journalists on Election Processes and Procedures. Voting during the Ondo and Edo elections will commence at 8:30am and close at 2:30pm, according to Okoye. He berated a lawyer, Femi Emodamori, for issuing an open letter asking the electoral body to publish personal details of the Deputy Governor of Ondo State, and candidate of the Zenith Labour Party, Agboola Ajayi. He said the lawyer should be trained on how to obtain certified true copies of credentials of candidates from the electoral body. The Commission has never denied anybody details of candidates, provided the application is properly done, according to him. Okoye, however, said the commission was prepared to conduct the Ondo election in line with COVID-19 protocols, adding that basic Personal Protective Equipment, including face masks, sanitisers, infrared thermometers and disinfectants would be available at polling units for staff. 