PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has approved additional N8.9bn COVID-19 hazard allowance for health workers in the country. The Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, disclosed this during a briefing in Abuja on Thursday. He added that the procurement of personal protective equipment for all hospitals was in progress and would be given priority. The Point had reported that the Minister of Health, Osagie Ohanire, on Wednesday, urged the striking doctors to go back to work in view of the fact that their primary responsibility was to save lives. The SGF said, “Over the past one week, a lot of discussions in the public space has happened around the strike action by doctors and other unions in the health sector. “While appreciable progress has been made in the negotiations to resolve the issues, I must underscore the fact that we are in a global public health situation that has impacted negatively on all aspects of our lives, including the economy and finances of government.” According to him, this has made it imperative for all citizens, irrespective of their professions, and particularly all health workers, to re-awaken the sense of humanity and patriotism. “I’m pleased to announce that Mr. President has graciously approved additional N8.9bn of COVID-19 hazard allowance to all medical and health workers in the country. In addition, the procurement of personal protective equipment for all hospitals is in progress and will be given priority,” Mustapha said. Ohanire had, on Monday, directed the Chief Medical Directors and Managing Directors of federal tertiary hospitals to ensure routine services continued as usual. In this regard, he said consultants and National Youth Service Corp doctors should be made to maintain routine services. To address the current situation, the minister also directed that locum staffers should be brought in when and where necessary to forestall the disruption of services when applicable and affordable. The resident doctors had embarked on strike over the non-payment of their COVID-19 hazard allowance and other demands. But the minister said most of their demands had been met, adding that the other difficult demands were at an advanced stage of implementation. He said, “lt is with deep concern that l view the ongoing strike by the Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors, which commenced yesterday (Tuesday) September 7, 2020. “We must remember that the primary duty of doctors and all health workers is to save lives. Embarking on a strike in this time that the country is battling with the COVlD-19 pandemic is ill-timed and ill-advised. It is a critical time in which all well-meaning medical professionals should close ranks and confront the common enemy, which is the COVlD-I9 pandemic threatening mankind. The Minister added, “This is therefore one strike too many. Besides, most of the demands have been met and others, though, difficult, are at an advanced stage of implementation. A little patience would have made a big difference. “The Federal Ministry of Health finds it necessary to ensure measures are put in place to mitigate the effect of this strike on the generality of our populace by directing the CMDs/MDs of our federal tertiary hospitals to immediately do the following: “COVlD-19 treatment outlets should continue to function as before. Emergency services should continue to run as before. Routine services should be maintained with Consultants, NYSC Doctors. Locum staffers to be brought in when and where necessary to forestall services disruption when applicable and affordable.” 