THE Nigerian Bar Association said, on Thursday, that the Nigerian Correctional Service denied its representatives access to Yahaya Sharif-Aminu, a singer who was sentenced to death. Sharif-Aminu was sentenced to death on August 10, after he was found guilty of blasphemy in a song against Prophet Muhammad. The association, in a statement signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Ralpulchukwu Nduka, said its members confirmed that the singer had been denied access to any lawyer since his conviction. The NBA said, “The President of the Nigerian Bar Association – Mr. Olumide Akpata, in response to the allegations on the social media by Nigerians and calls by members of the Nigerian Bar Association on the Federal Correctional Centre, Kano to allow Yahaya Sharif-Aminu have access to his lawyers, set up a two-man Fact-Finding Committee, made up of the NBA 1st Vice President – Mr. John Aikpokpo-Martins and the National Welfare Secretary – Mr. Kunle Edun. “The committee was mandated to urgently embark on a fact-finding mission to the Federal Correctional Centre in Kano. “On September 2, 2020, the 1st Vice President and the National Welfare Secretary visited the said Correctional Centre and sought audience with the Controller of the Correctional Centre.” The statement said, at the Correctional Centre, the NBA National Officers were informed that the Controller of the Correctional Centre was not available and were granted an audience by the second in command. It added, “The NBA national officers informed the said second in command about their mission at the Federal Correctional Centre, Kano. They requested to see Yahaya Sharif-Aminu in order to ascertain the veracity of the allegation that lawyers were not allowed to gain access to him. “The said second in command informed the said national officers that he does not have the authority to grant the access sought, but would seek the permission of his boss, the Controller (who was not available as at the time of the visit) before allowing the National Officers access to Yahaya Sharif-Aminu. “The afore-mentioned national officers were eventually denied access to Yahaya Sharif even after the said second in command made the call to his superior.” “However, the said national officers were able to confirm that Yahaya Sharif-Aminu has been denied access to any lawyer since his conviction. They were further informed that Yahaya Sharif-Aminu was not represented by a lawyer during the trial at the Upper Sharia Court,” the association noted. 