 … refutes marriage separation allegation FORMER Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-kayode has threatened to drag a blogger, Stella Dimokorkus, to court over an allegation that he ( Fani-kayode) and his wife, Precious Chikwendu, are presently separated. The former minister, who has been embroiled in series of attacks since he insulted a journalist in Akwa Ibom, said the blogger’s allegation that he parted ways with his wife over alleged domestic violence was “spurious and maliciously engineered.” The blogger had alleged in her report that Fani-Kayode might not be the biological father of the couple’s triplet sons, saying they were conceived through IVF and that Chikwendu had asked for a DNA test. The Peoples Democratic Party chieftain, in a letter by his lawyer, Adeola Adedipe, titled, “Defamation of Chief Femi Fani-Kayode – Re: Femi Fani-Kayode and Precious Chikwendu Part Ways Over Alleged Domestic Violence” demanded N2bn from the blogger for defamation. He gave an ultimatum of two weeks for Dimokorkus to apologise to him publicly in the same medium and two other national dailies, as well as enter a negotiation with his lawyers on the N2bn demand, or face legal action. The letter said, “Our client is aggrieved and has instructed us to draw your attention to these libelous breaches of his person and family. By this publication, our client has received denigrating phone calls and messages across the globe by virtue of which he now suffers immeasurable loss of goodwill. “However, he is inclined to draw a curtain over the wild and spurious claims if you retract the allegations on the same platform they were published and consequently apologise to him in two other national dailies. “You are also advised to enter into negotiations with us for the sum of two billion naira only being a token amount for penitence. Please bear in mind that you have 14 days from receipt of this letter to comply with the highlighted mitigating measures, the failure of which will leave our client with no preferred alternative than to seek redress in court.” On the paternity of their triplets, the lawyer said, “Of utmost concern also, is the public invitation to debate on the paternity of his sons (triplets). These are innocent children who are yet to discern good from evil but have been made to become the focus of public spectacle and ridicule.” 