THE Chief of Army Staff, Gen. Tukur Yusuf Buratai, on Monday, commissioned a bridge built by the Nigeria Army Engineers for the people of Owu Kuta community in Ayedire Local Government Area of Osun State. Buratai also witnessed the commissioning of a new ultra modern palace of Olowu Kuta and a clinic built by the traditional ruler of the community, Olowu of Owu Kuta, Oba Adekunle Oyelude Makama. Speaking after commissioning of the age-long bridge named after him, Buratai said the building of the bridge was partly to appreciate the support of the traditional ruler to the Nigeria Armed Forces and also as part of the Army’s infrastructural development drive in the country. Buratai said Oba Makama had continued to correct the misconceptions of some members of the public towards the Armed Forces, especially the Nigeria Army through the media and civil society organisations. He vowed to keep ensuring that the Nigeria Army was responsive and professional in the discharge of its duties. The military chief said, “We have a new Army that is determined to be responsive and professional in the discharged of constitutional duties. “When I was appointed as the Chief of Army Staff, I met Lamidi Adeosun in the North East as the commander of the operation there and he started the rejigging processes of the Nigeria Army where we commenced our upward and progressive movement toward the technical defeat of Boko Haram. He has proved to be a very loyal lieutenant. When I was first ambushed, he stood by me and he proved himself worthy of his new position. “We really appreciate the Olowu Kuta for his support to the Nigeria Army in the midst of bitter criticism; he mobilised Civil Society organisations and the media to correct the ill minds. The Nigeria Army Engineer is one institution that has played a very important role in infrastructural development, even the economic development of our country and we know the role played after the civil war. Virtually all the roads in those days were done by Nigeria Army engineers. They are professional, experts and deliver quality as well as a very cheap cost.” Speaking, Oba Makama said his forefathers had started the bridge over 100 years ago but were bogged down by one failure or the other. He explained that he sought the help of General Buratai for the construction of the Lt. General Tukur Yusuf Buratai Bailey bridge and he accepted the same day, adding, “I am proud to go to the rooftops to shout that we are the greatest beneficiary of the government of President Muhammadu Buhari through the Chief of Army Staff. “It took us more than a hundred years to get this done. I dare sat that hundred years from now, sons and daughters of Kuta, Ikoyi and Ede and all our neighbours will remember a bridge builder Babur man in Army uniform from Buratai in far away Borno State who, out of sheer love for me, for my people and for my state, decided to use his office to get this done for Yorubaland.” 