 A mother of three has accused her husband, Sunday Agu, of Ihuogo Poperi Isielu Amangwu, in Afikpo South Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, of having carnal knowledge of their 10-year-old daughter. Mrs Agu, who lives near Living Wonders Bible Church in the area, reported the matter to the state chapter of the International Federation of Women Lawyers, saying she discovered the defilement while trying to treat an injury on her daughter’s leg with hot water. The man, a middle-aged beans and melon seller, was later arrested by the Police. According to his wife, the unusual physical state of her daughter’s vagina made her ask the questions that led to the revelation by the little girl. The distraught mother said, “To be honest, without mincing words, my husband has been sleeping with them. This very one, my first daughter, is 10 years old. I am not sure whether he has slept with the other two girls. I just noticed this one. “I noticed this ugly development when I wanted to treat an injury on my daughter’s leg locally with hot water. I innocently told her to remove her dress, including her pant. As I pressed the hot water on her leg, she shouted in pain and raised her other leg away from the one I was treating. Immediately, I sighted the state of her vagina, which looked like that of a woman that had given birth. I also saw traces of semen on it. “Consequently, I took her inside the house told her to tell me who had been touching her. Surprisingly, my girl, aged 10, refused telling me what happened; she said the culprit threatened to kill her if she mentioned it to anyone. Because of that, I went into my kitchen, brought a knife and threatened to kill her if she did not tell me all the truth. There and then, she said her biological father was the rapist. “On hearing this, I got so disappointed. In doubt, I asked her four more times and she repeated the same answer that her father was responsible. She said she told him she would report to me and he warned her seriously that he would kill her if she told anyone about the incident. “To that effect, I went to report the matter at Afikpo South Local Government Council. Regrettably, as I speak, no action has been taken about it by the council.” Speaking with newsmen, the little girl (name withheld) explained in their dialect that her father forcefully had carnal knowledge of her recently when her mother went to the farm and threatened to kill her if she told anybody about it. Reacting, the state chairperson of the International Federation of Women Lawyers, Grace Chima, disclosed that the federation had effected the arrest of the suspected rapist through a synergy with the Nigeria Police and assured that they would follow the matter to a logical conclusion to serve as a deterrent to others. 