… as Atiku urges Edo people to re-elect PDP candidate NATIONAL Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, on Tuesday, urged the people of Edo State to reject the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Godwin Obaseki, saying that he “does not deserve any democratic ballot paper.” The APC chieftain, who made the call in a broadcast on TVC, said Obaseki was not part of the struggle for democracy and could not understand the value and pain associated with the struggle. He said, “I, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, want to appeal as a committed democrat, and the leader of all democrats regardless of our political parties, to our conscience and commitment to democracy today, on the forthcoming election in Edo state. “I want to appeal to you to reject Godwin Obaseki in this coming election. I have suffered with many others to bring about this democratic regime that today, we are enjoying in the country. “Godwin Obaseki did not participate in any aspect of the struggle to enshrine democracy in the country. Therefore, he cannot understand the value and the pains associated with this democratic struggle.” Meanwhile, Vice President Atiku Abubakar and Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the 2019 election, also took to his facebook page to call on Edo voters to vote wisely on September 19 for Obaseki. He urged the authorities to provide the right atmosphere for votes to count, noting that Nigeria’s democracy was bought at a great price. The former VP said, “The democracy that we enjoy today was bought at a great price. We can only deepen and sustain it by respecting the sanctity of the ballot and necessary review of our electoral processes. “As the great people of Edo State go to the polls to elect their governor this weekend, they need to be provided with a secured environment to cast their votes and be assured that their votes will count. “I urge all duly registered voters of conscience and who truly care about the wellbeing of Edo to turn out enmasse to cast and defend their vote for Governor Obaseki.” 