THE Peoples Democratic Party’s National Campaign Council for the Ondo Governorship Election has counselled the Governor of Ondo State and candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Rotimi Akeredolu, to engage in issue-based campaign and stop piling pressure on the Independent National Electoral
Commission and security agencies to rig the October 10, 2020 election in his favour. The PDP campaign Council urged Akeredolu “to accept the reality of his self-inflicted woes of non-performance or withdraw from the race if he cannot stand the shame of facing the Ondo electorate with his empty scorecard for which a crushing defeat awaits him at the poll.” The party, in a release signed by its National Publicity Seecretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, on Saturday, said, “Our campaign has been made aware of how the APC and agents of jittery
Governor Akeredolu are putting pressure on INEC and security hierarchy
having discovered that they cannot win any election without recourse to
institutional rigging and violence. “This pathetic and criminal adventure by the sinking APC further confirms
that their campaign had since collapsed and can no longer command any
genuine followership that would translate into votes at the poll. “It is clear, and manifestly so, that Governor Akeredolu and his
self-serving government have abysmally failed the people of Ondo state and that is why he is now running from pillar to post seeking for how institutions of government can be manipulated to favour him in the election.” The party further said, “Governor Akeredolu cannot point to any landmark development project his self-serving government has provided for the people of Ondo state in his
almost four years as governor. “He has failed in all the promises he made to the people of Ondo State; instituted a highly corrupt, incompetent, insensitive and unreliable system that has destroyed the legacies bequeathed by past leaders and left the people poor, despondent and in dire need of a new and purposeful leadership; which they have now found in Eyitayo Jegede. “In fact, it is clear to Governor Akeredolu that our candidate, Eyitayo Jegede, will defeat him fair and square even in his Owo Local Government and that is why Aketi has become distraught ahead of the election.” PDP said Akeredolu and his party should come to terms with the fact that electoral manipulations and violence would not help them as the people had since withdrawn from them and were only waiting for election day to replace him with their new choice leader, Eyitayo Jegede, on
the platform of the PDP. “Our candidate, Eyitayo Jegede SAN is already in league with the people
across the length and breadth of Ondo State in their collective quest to liberate themselves from the stranglehold of the self-serving Akeredolu administration,” the party noted. The PDP national campaign council said it therefore cautioned INEC and security
agencies not to allow the APC, which is not ready for election in Ondo, to rubbish the credibility it had achieved in the September 19 Edo governorship election. 