 … as visitation panel begins work On August 12, a strong controversy of due process was ignited in the tertiary education sector of Nigeria with the announcement of the removal of Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe as the Vice Chancellor of the University of Lagos. The Council, in a statement, titled, “Notice to the General Public on the Removal of the Vice Chancellor of the University of Lagos,” said its action was based on the outcome of an investigation into serious acts of ‘wrongdoing’ by the sacked VC. The Wale Babalakin-led Governing Council of the institution, rose from an emergency meeting, held at the National Universities Commission, Abuja, and issued a statement informing the public and stakeholders of the institution of the immediate removal of the VC. While stakeholders, parents and Nigerians at large were still battling with the authenticity of the news, the Council backed it with a formal statement, explaining why it sacked the VC. The Council, in a statement, titled, “Notice to the General Public on the Removal of the Vice Chancellor of the University of Lagos,” said its action was based on the outcome of an investigation into serious acts of ‘wrongdoing’ by the sacked VC. The statement, signed by the Registrar and Secretary to the Council, Oladejo Azeez, and dated 12th August, 2020, said, “The General Public is hereby notified that at an emergency meeting held on Wednesday, 12th August, 2020, and in accordance with the statutory powers vested in it by law, the Governing Council of the University of Lagos removed Professor Oluwatoyin T. Ogundipe, FAS, from office as Vice Chancellor of the University with immediate effect. “The decision was based on Council’s investigation of serious acts of wrongdoing, gross misconduct, financial recklessness, and abuse of office against Professor Oluwatoyin T. Ogundipe, FAS. At the meeting, where the removal of the VC was announced, seven members of the Council voted for the removal of Ogundipe, while four voted against it. One member voted that the vice chancellor should instead be placed on suspension. I REMAIN UNILAG VC – Ogundipe
However, in a swift reaction, on the same day, the embattled Vice Chancellor, Ogundipe, described as mischievous the notice sent out by the Governing Council of the University, announcing his removal from office. Ogundipe said the general public should disregard what he called “mischievous disinformation about the sitting Vice Chancellor.” He said this in a statement he personally signed on Wednesday, titled, “Notice to the General Public on the Removal of the Vice Chancellor, University of Lagos by Oladejo Azeez, Esq”. He said, “The attention of the University of Lagos (UNILAG) management has been drawn to the ‘Notice to the General Public on the Removal of the Vice Chancellor, University of Lagos’; dated August 12, 2020 and signed by Oladejo Azeez, Esq, Registrar and Secretary to Council, stating that the current Vice Chancellor, Professor Oluwatoyin T. Ogundipe, FAS has been removed from office with immediate effect. “This is untrue and a figment of his imagination. Therefore, stakeholders of Unilag and the general public are advised to disregard this mischievous disinformation about the sitting Vice Chancellor of Unilag, contained in that notice. Professor Ogundipe still remains Unilag’s Vice Chancellor.” The lawmakers representing the Senate on the Board, kicked against the Council’s decision immediately and left to address their colleagues at the Upper legislative chamber. SENATORS CONDEMN REMOVAL, DESCRIBE ACTION AS SHAMEFUL
Two representatives of the Nigerian Senate in the Governing Council of the University of Lagos immediately kicked against the removal of the Vice-Chancellor. The Senators, Bola Oboh and Olukemi Odukoya, in separate statements, described the process leading to the Council’s action as shameful and unacceptable. They accused the Pro-Chancellor of the University, Dr. Wale Babalakin, of turning deaf ears to advice on the tenable way of handling the crisis that led to the VC’s removal, saying he disregarded the guidelines already laid down for the removal of office holders. Oboh said, “Dear Senate members, the University of Lagos’ regulation has been stepped on and ridiculed. Babawale Babalakin, the ProChancellor waited for the tenure of Prof. Chukwu and Prof. Familoni to end, to call an Emergency Council meeting. “Based on the Dagari report, without allowing the VC defend himself, the Pro-Chancellor called for a vote for the removal of the VC. I (Prof. Oboh), Prof. Odukoya, Prof. Leshi and John Momoh voted against the removal of the VC.
“Six persons (excluding Babalakin) voted for (in support). Babalakin then went ahead to announce the removal of the VC. Dear Senate members, the procedure for removal of persons in office is clear and this was pointed out to Babalakin several times but he turned deaf ears. “He said he would announce the Ag. Vice Chancellor at 5pm. I have excused myself that I need to report to Senate members the shameful act currently ongoing. Please let us arise to fight this.” Prof. Olukemi Odukoya said, “It is with great regret that I announce to you that the Pro-Chancellor has had his way in actualising his machinery to remove the Vice Chancellor. “At today’s 12th August 2020, Emergency Meeting of Council in Abuja, Dr. Babalakin asked the VC and DVC (DS) to leave the meeting and by vote of 6 to 4, announced that the Vice Chancellor had been removed. “Members, arise, this is unacceptable. We must defend the Management of the University.”
The embattled VC, who restated that he remained the Vice Chancellor of the University, also described his purported removal as an illegality that could not stand. He said, “Assuming without conceding that the purported removal is true, the extant provisions of the law have not been complied with. “For the avoidance of doubt, the University Act states that: If it appears to the Council that there are reasons for believing that the Vice Chancellor… should be removed from his office… on the grounds of misconduct or inability to perform the functions of his office… the Council shall:
a. Give notice of these reasons to the person in question.
b. Make arrangement for a joint committee of the Council and the Senate to investigate the matter where it relates to the Vice Chancellor… and to report on it to the Council.” The VC therefore asked stakeholders to disregard what he termed “mischievous disinformation about the sitting Vice Chancellor of UNILAG.” WHAT THE UNILAG SENATE SAID
Perhaps the strongest backing that the embattled VC got was that of the Senate of the University.
The Senate, on the day after the announcement, called for the immediate dissolution of the Dr. Wale Babalakin-led Governing Council of the institution. Members, at an emergency meeting, passed a vote of no confidence on the Governing Council and rejected the appointment of Prof. Theophilus Shoyombo as the Vice Chancellor of UNILAG. In its resolution at the end of the meeting, made available to The Point, the Senate also rejected the “purported removal” of the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, and reaffirmed its confidence in him as the substantive VC of the University of Lagos. In the resolution, signed by the Chairman of the Senate Emergency Meeting, Prof. Chioma Agomo, and five other professors who are members of the Senate, the highest decision making organ of the institution said the action of the Governing Council constituted a violation of Section 3 (8), (9), (10) and (11) of the Universities (Miscellaneous Provisions) Amendment Act 2003 on the removal of the Vice Chancellor of any Federal University in Nigeria. They said the Senate “was neither invited to participate nor did it participate in any joint committee of Council and Senate as required by law, noting that “it received the news of the removal of the Vice Chancellor from office from the social media.” The Senate therefore said, “The purported appointment of an Acting Vice Chancellor of the University of Lagos breaches Section 3 (8) (13) of the Act. Due process was not followed in the purported appointment of the Acting Vice Chancellor as the Senate was neither informed nor invited to forward its recommendation to Council. “Its functions and its powers have been completely appropriated by the Council in breach of the law.” At this point, with stiff opposition by all the industrial unions of the University, and the vote of no confidence passed against the council by the highest decision making organ of the institution, observers had thought that Shoyombo’s claim might be the beginning of a major crisis at the University of Lagos. ASUU, NASU, SSANU, NAAT KICK
All the industrial unions of the University of Lagos, operating under the aegis of Joint Staff Union, also condemned what they termed illegal removal of the Vice-Chancellor. The Academic Staff Union of Universities, Senior Staff Association Of Nigerian Universities, Non-Academic Staff Union of Universities, and National Association of Academic Technologists, all said they were surprised that a Council constituted by law, and chaired by a Senior Advocate of Nigeria could “most lawlessly” violate the laws of the University in the purported removal of the VC. The unions spoke at a joint meeting, held on August 13, 2020, noting that the action of the Governing Council was illegal, vexatious and vindictive. In a statement at the end of the meeting, jointly signed by the four chairmen of the Unions – Dele Ashiru (ASUU); Olusola Sowunmi (SSANU); Ajibade Kehinde (NASU); and Salyman Lawal (NAAT) – the unions said, “According to the University of Lagos Act, laws and practice of other universities, not only in Nigeria but in other civilised climes, a principal officer cannot just be removed on flimsy excuses without regard to laws. “The four unions of all workers in the University of Lagos hereby declare the removal of the vice-chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, as illegal on the following grounds that there was “no notification to the Vice-Chancellor on the allegations against him; and no investigation panel was set up to investigate the allegations against the Vice-Chancellor in line with the university Act.” UNILAG BIGGER THAN ONE INDIVIDUAL – SOYOMBO
Meanwhile, the newly appointed Acting Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Soyombo, assumed office about a week after, pledging to prioritise the welfare of workers. Though Soyombo was received joyously, mainly by members of the Non-Academic Staff of the University, the cold air could still be felt as regards the disposition of the Academic Staff Union of the University to his appointment.
While addressing staff from the foyer of the Senate Building, the Acting Vice-Chancellor called for the workers’ support, noting that he alone could not do the job. He reminded them that UNILAG was bigger than any one person, praying for peace and stability to return to the institution. Soyombo said, “These are indeed trying times for our great university and our prayer is that God will see us through this trying period. I want to thank all our unions and the members – NASU, SSANU, NAAT, and ASUU. “No matter what we say, we are all together and should all work together. I believe that by the grace of God, peace and stability will return to our university and we will all continue to work together in unity…
“I thought that we should not allow the ship of the University of Lagos to continue to drift.
 The University of Lagos is a foremost University; the University of Lagos is greater than any individual; anyone of us.” According to him, everyone’s stay in the institution will end one day. He said, “We all come here to work and at our various times, we pray that we all live till retirement. But whether we like it or not, when we work in UNILAG, we will leave UNILAG. But the University of Lagos will continue. It behoves us to leave the University of Lagos better than we met it. “There is a lot of work in the University of Lagos but I can’t do it alone, that is why I need your support; that is why I need your prayers and I believe that we should all join hands together; let us work together for the progress of our university. When we have a success story, it should be for each and every one of us.” FG MUST WADE IN TO SET RECORDS STRAIGHT
Meanwhile, amid all that happened in quick succession around the removal of Ogundipe as UNILAG VC, parents, stakeholder, other Vice Chancellors, and Nigerians in general, have called on the Federal Government to wade into the UNILAG crisis, and ensure that everyone is given fair hearing. An economist, and graduate of UNILAG, Dr. Hakeem Olaniyan, said, “We must not give a bad example for posterity sake. Many of the stakeholders have said that due process was not followed in the removal of the VC. “These people have alleged that the Chairman of the Governing Council masterminded the removal in a way that was not in line with due process. Such should not be allowed to stand in an institution as strong as the University of Lagos. There must be an independent probe of all that led to this removal.” A parent, who also graduated from the University, Dr. Chinwe Ade-Ayinla, also called on the Federal Government to begin an independent probe of allegations by the Council against the embattled VC, saying, “Injustice of whatever form should not be allowed to stand in our institution. From all sides, one can see that there are some loopholes in the action of the Council, with the stand of critical stakeholders that they were not carried along, in line with the Constitution.” VISITATION PANEL
A special visitation panel was eventually set up by the Federal Government, following the suspension of Babalakin and Shoyombo, in line with stakeholders’ request, while the Chairman of Channels Television, John Momoh, was appointed as acting Chairman of Council, to ratify the election of Prof. Folasade Ogunsola as the Acting VC of the institution by the Senate. Stakeholders have commended the Federal Government for the move, hoping that normalcy would return soon to the fronline university after painstaking investigation and credibleaction. 