FOLLOWING the impending flattening of the curve of COVID-19, the Osun State Government has announced the closure of its Mercyland Isolation Centre in Osogbo. The 160-bed isolation centre that was commissioned on May 20, 2020 by the state Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, as part of efforts to curb the coronavirus pandemic in the state, was said to have been donated by a group, the Coalition Against COVID-19. Governor Oyetola had said that the group donated equipment, consumables and 100 beds, adding that the state government added 60 beds for the Mercyland facility. Announcing the isolation centre’s closure in a statement, signed by the Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Funke Egbemode, the state government issued a stern warning to its citizens to take personal responsibility for their safety against the COVID-19 pandemic, irrespective of security measures being relaxed across the country. The statement hinted that the state was on its way to flattening the curve of the pandemic within its borders. The state government said it would intensify the sensitisation of its citizens on the government and NCDC approved safety protocols, while citizens were enjoined to take their adherence to the protocols seriously. The statement said, “The Government continues to worry about the level of non-compliance of its citizens to  the COVID-19 safety protocols in the public space, with more people behaving like COVID-19 is no longer a reality. “Although the curve seems to be flattening in our state, it is important that we all acknowledge that the State of Osun is not an Island. Our land borders are opened, and that means that people move in and out of the state every day, most of whose COVID-19 status cannot be ascertained. “Airports have also been opened across the country, which means that people from outside Nigeria can come into the country from those nations that are still experiencing spikes in the number of confirmed cases of the pandemic.” It added, “We cannot, therefore afford to take chances by letting down our guards. This is the time when individuals, families and institutions must do what is right so that the entire citizenry can stay safe together. “The government is also extending an appeal to religious leaders, not to step down their adherence to the established guidelines. It has been observed in some quarters that special programmes, extended services and high-density gatherings are already being conducted. “This flagrant disregard is not only illegal, but one that is capable of endangering the lives of people, especially our children, and the government will not hesitate to close down any outfit found guilty of this disregard. “The government is doing everything within its power to protect its people from coronavirus, including an ongoing epidemiological survey to determine the level of prevalence of the disease in the state. Let us all ensure these efforts do not go to waste.” Recall that aside from the closed isolation centre, Oyetola said his government had renovated and equipped three other isolation centres, which include: 130-bed facility in Ejigbo; 12-bed capacity in Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife; a 20-bed isolation centre and 8-bed Intensive Care Unit at State Specialist Hospital, Asubiaro, Osogbo. 