GOVERNOR Gboyega Oyetola of Osun State has toured some courts across the state and expressed dissatisfaction at the deplorable conditions in which he said he met the judicial buildings. The Governor described the state of the courts that he visited as bad, annoying and embarrassing. He, however, promised to renovate the courts to further strengthen justice delivery and assist the judicial staff in carrying out their duties. Oyetola stated this during his visitation to High and Magistrate Courts on Wednesday in Ile-Ife. He condemned the bad condition of the courts and observed that there was no modern equipment whatsoever in the courts. The governor said judiciary was the last hope of the common man and vowed to ensure the overhauling of the facilities. “Renovation of courts ought to start from High and Magistrate Courts in Ile-Ife because it is the source of the Yoruba race. I observed here (Ile-Ife courts) that the condition of Magistrate and High Courts are very bad, annoying and embarrassing,” Oyetola said. The Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice in the state, Oluwafemi Akanni, commended the governor for touring most of the courts for assessment of their conditions. He said the state government visited the courts to ensure their renovation and modernisation across the state. He added that the Governor believed in justice and rule of law, saying that the present administration would computerise and provide infrastructures that would ease the job of the judges and the entire judicial staff. The Spokesperson for the Nigeria Bar Association in Ile-Ife, Temitope Olajolo, acknowledged the steps taken by the Chief Judge of the state, Adipele Ojo. Olajolo said that the conditions of courts in Osun had worsened and they were embarrassing when compared with courts in other states that had been modernised and computerised. Olajolo said there was no good toilet in the courts, explaining that “if lawyers want to use the toilet, they have to go back home. So it will be good for government to renovate our courts.” 