THE Police in Lagos State have arrested a pastor, Stephanos Enofe, for marrying a Junior Secondary School 2 student after allegedly defiling her for two years. Enofe, The Point learnt, was arrested alongside the 15-year-old girl and her parents in Mushin. The arrest followed a complaint by a child rights advocacy group, Advocates For Children and Vulnerable Persons Network, with the support of the Director, Office of the Public Defender, Jide Martins. The suspect, who reportedly admitted the crime, had initially warned a member of the advocacy group not to disturb him, saying that he had the right to marry the underage since her family members had agreed. The Point had reported that the pastor, who is said to be the Founder of the Spirit Of Grace Ministry, located at 8 Makinde Street, Idi-oro area of Mushin, reportedly got married to the teenager after his first wife parked out of his house. The Point learnt that the pastor had allegedly been defiling the teenager for over two years. A source close to the case, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, had said, “Both the traditional and church wedding have taken place and the girl has moved into the man’s house. “The little girl, who is a member of the cleric’s church is his second wife. And this cleric went for an underage child after his first wife, and mother of four children packed out of his house and has refused every reconciliatory advance for over three years.” According to the family source, the girl’s father, who was not in support of the marriage, alleged that Bishop Enofe, started having sex with his daughter when she was only 13 years old. The teenager, it was learnt, started living with Bishop Enofe as his wife since August 28, 2020, after he had performed all traditional wedding rites to officially make her his wife. The Spokesperson for the Lagos State police Command, SP Muyiwa Adejobi, confirmed the development. He said, “Yes, the Command is aware of the case and the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, CP Hakeem Odumosu, has ordered that the matter be thoroughly investigated by the SCID Panti. “The order was hinged on the need to promote decency and due enforcement of laws to achieve adequate security for all and sundry.” 