… ‘Police met rapist and native doctor with charms’ A man whose daughter was raped in Edobor Street, off Uwelu Quarters, Egor Local Government Area of Edo State, has alleged that she was lured by one Destiny Obiyan with rice and egg. The father of the victim, Okehelem Palace Oyenma, made the allegation in Benin, during a protest march to the secretariat of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Edo State Council. Oyenma said he became aware that all was not well with his daughter when he noticed that she was bleeding profusely from her private part. He said, “He took my daughter through the backyard to his own house, bought her rice and egg. My daughter told me that after feeding her, he pulled her pant, put his finger and after that, inserted his penis. “After that, my daughter started bleeding seriously. So, because of the curfew, the vigilance group assisted me and my wife to look for my daughter that night, not knowing that she was with this Destiny Obiyan in his house. “She told me that after he finished raping her, he asked her if she could find her way back home. We wanted her to take us to the house of the rapist that night but she said she could not locate the house that night. “The following day, I asked her to take her mother to the rapist’s house while I went to the Textile Mill police station to lay up the complaint. When I got to the Obiyan’s house with the Police, we met him and his native doctor with his charms inside his palour. “According to the native doctor, they had already gone to buy drugs for my daughter to stop her bleeding. On the floor were a handkerchief stained with her blood and some other charms were on display on the floor. “The police further arrested the boy and the native doctor. The rapist said he sent two persons, a boy and a young lady, to buy the drugs and that they spent N2,000 for the drugs.” He said the test conducted on her showed that she was defiled “The test results from the police clinic and from the government hospital have shown that there was penetration,” the father said. He called on the police to investigate and ensure that his daughter gets justice. Confirming the incident, the Police Public Relations Officer, SP Chidi Nwanbuzor, said the matter was already in court. 