THE unstable fiscal environment has remained a challenge to ensuring growth in the Nigerian petroleum industry, especially the upstream sector. The Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Mele Kyari, said this when he received members of the House of Representatives Committee on Petroleum Resources (Upstream) who were on an oversight visit to the Corporation. Kyari explained that international investors were losing confidence in the nation’s oil and gas industry and tasked the lawmakers to act fast and arrest the situation. The NNPC boss noted that foreign capital was needed in the upstream sector and that the only way to attract it was to have stable laws and a friendly business environment that could guarantee cost recovery and a decent return on investment for investors. He disclosed that the uncertainty in the sector created by the long delay in the passage of the PIB had led to a number of divestments from the country in the recent past. The Point had reported that the draft of the Petroleum Industry Bill, combining 16 different Nigerian petroleum laws, had been sent to the National Assembly. The frame of the document had earlier been approved by President Muhammadu Buhari. “We need to act quickly to move from this unstable situation to a very stable one and the only way is for us to get the Petroleum Industry Bill to work so that countries and investors can work with us,” Kyari said. The GMD also noted that the drive by the management of NNPC to entrench the culture of transparency in the Corporation had improved its business fortunes and creditworthiness as lenders were now willing to grant credit to it. In his comments, the Chairman of the Committee, Musa Sarki Adar, said that the committee was ready to provide the necessary support for the Corporation to discharge its duties without hindrance. He acknowledged the Corporation’s efforts at deepening transparency and accountability, stressing that the Committee was impressed with the level of professionalism exhibited by the NNPC management and the leadership role played by the GMD in rallying the oil and gas industry to provide support for the Federal Government’s fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. 