… I’ve sent the two wives away – Father A final year student of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, Agbolade Zainab Olamide, escaped death by a whisker after her stepmother allegedly stabbed her on the head over a disagreement. Our correspondent gathered that the incident occurred at their residence at Oke-Ogun in Ila Orangun community of Osun State on Wednesday, September 2, 2020. Olamide, who spoke on the telephone with The Point’s correspondent on Friday, said trouble started when her stepmother refused to borrow her mother a grater, a kitchen utensil she wanted to use in slicing okro. The Part 4 student of the Department of Biochemistry claimed that there had been series of misunderstandings and bickering since her father married her stepmother as third wife. According to Olamide, her father is married to three wives and her mother is the second. She accused her stepmother of always coming to borrow things from her mother but would deny her mother of using any of her belongings. Narrating her ordeal, she said, “We have been having misunderstanding all this while. She is the last wife and my mother is the second wife out of the three wives of my dad. “My mother borrowed a grater from her a week or two weeks ago and we returned it. Even if she wants to borrow something from us, she won’t ask, she will just come to our room and pick it. “Now, on Wednesday, my mother wanted to borrow her grater again. She wasn’t around then. And my mother asked one of her children to bring the graiter. “She (step sister) lied that she didn’t see it. So I told her that ‘whenever her mummy wants to borrow something, she doesn’t ask before she picks it.’ I told her that now that we wanted to borrow from them, they were keeping it. “Then I said I would slap her if she comes to borrow anything from us. When her mother came back, she reported to her that I cursed her. So, her mother started shouting and moved to attack our last born. “It was then I voiced out and intervened by returning her abuses. Unknown to me, she came close to me and stabbed me with knife on my head.” She accused her father of being insensitive to the development despite the fact that he was at home and saw the severity of the injury she suffered. She added, “My dad was there and he couldn’t tell her to leave the knife. Instead, he told me to leave his wife alone. I ran away from home and reported the case at the police station. She didn’t even feel any remorse for her action. I saw her laughing before the police arrested her. “My father reprimanded me for reporting the case to the police. He said it was a family issue. I was not even in control of myself. He saw blood gushing from my head and couldn’t do anything. He went to the police station and bailed his wife back and said he was not going to do anything unless my mother begged her. “All I want is for her to serve judgement and realise her mistakes. This is not her first time. She had once stabbed my dad with a broken bottle, did same to our first born. She had once even hit our last born’s head against the wall. All I need is justice.” When our correspondent contacted her father who simply identified himself as Baba Zainab, he disclosed that he had sent Olamide’s mother and his third wife packing to serve as punishment for them. He said, “Yes. My third wife stabbed my daughter. And I have sent the two wives away from home. I am their husband and I have the right to send them away. I sent them away because they had a misunderstanding. I was at home the day the incident occurred and I went to the police station to bail my third wife. “After she was released. I got home to try to settle it. They didn’t give me the chance for settlement. So I sent the two wives away so that their families can come for settlement. Maybe today or tomorrow, the case should be settled.” 