 … Says it’s a lie from the pit of hell . Seeks legal redress Ace Fuji musician and Maiyegun of Yorubaland, Alhaji Wasiu Ayinde, has dismissed the allegation that he is having a sexual affair with the youngest wife of Alaafin of Oyo, Olori Ajoke, as a lie from the pit of hell. Wasiu Ayinde, popularly called K1 De Ultimate, said the lies were concocted by those bent on battering his image, mainly as a result of their grouse with his Mayegun title. A statement signed by his Media Adviser, Kunle Rasheed, said, “The attention of Fuji Maestro and Mayegun of Yorubaland, Alhaji Wasiu Ayinde Marshal, K1 De Ultimate, has been drawn to the rumour making the rounds in the past 48 hours, on social media platforms, where it has been alleged that the music icon was having an affair with Olori Ajoke, one of the wives of Alayeluwa, the Alaafin of Oyo, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi 111. “Ordinarily, one would have waved off this allegation as one coming from the warped mind of one possibly numbed by high covid-19 fever.
But as known in these parts, a lie repeatedly told, has a way of transmuting to truth. ” Let me categorically state that the rumour is a lie concocted from the pit of hell by those whose aim is to drag to the mud, the name of K1 De Ultimate and ultimately that of the most revered kingdom in Yoruba land.” K1 added, “The agents of Lucifer have continued in their warped delusions to see K1 go to the ground just for being conferred with the title of Mayegun of Yoruba land. The Alaafin’s crime is the conferment of the honour, hence the grim plot to drag him down also. Moreover, the higly respected Monarch and his Olori have both debunked the story as baseless and unfounded. “For the records, as the Mayegun of Yorubaland, K1 is aware of the customs and traditions of the Yoruba and as such, can not put the culture and tradition of the Yorubaland to disrepute. He reminded rumour mongers that Nigeria had adequate laws to bring anyone who embarked on character assassination of the innocent to book. “The fans and the general public should rest assurred that we will legally seek redress for this allegation,” he said. 