 The police in Kaduna have allegedly killed four youths at Trikania, a suburb of the state capital. No fewer than 10 others were also said to have sustained gunshot injuries with seven in critical condition. It was gathered that the injured persons were being treated at undisclosed hospitals in the area. The incident was said to have occurred on Monday afternoon when some youths allegedly confronted the Civilian Joint Task Force, which tried to enforce the stay-at-home order, at Railway market in the community. Residents said the youth and members of the JTF engaged in a fight. The JTF operatives were said to have retreated and later returned with some policemen from Kakuri, who allegedly shot teargas at the youth at the scene and later fired live bullets on some youths throwing stones and other missiles at them. Confirming the incident, a community leader in the area, Nuhu Mohammed Marafan Nasarawa, said  youths were killed by the police. “Yes, four were killed and we buried them today (Tuesday) while 10 others sustained gun shots injuries out of which seven are in critical condition as we speak. I called in the army and other community leaders and tried our best to calm the angry youths who vowed to take revenge against the police,” he said. He said the fighting started between the youths and JTF before a police detachment came in to enforce the stay-at-home order. Among the victims is 30-year-old Musa Aliyu, who was killed after rushing out of the bathroom to see what was happening outside their gate. His father, Ali Balteh, who resides at Dogaje Street Tirkania, explained that his son was having his bath when some youths jumped inside their compound. “Musa rushed out of the bathroom when he saw youth jumping into our compound. So, he went straight to the gate to see who was chasing them and that was how police shot him on the left hand and the bullet penetrated into his chest,” he said. He was taken to a private hospital where he was confirmed dead along with other victims. Police Public Relations Officer in the state, ASP Mohammed Jalige, said the command would issue an official statement later in the day after hearing from the Divisional Police Office in the area. 