…say gang’ll meet their waterloo, assure residents of safety The police in Ogun have warned members of the notorious criminal gang, popularly called “One Million Boys,” to steer clear of the state or risk serious consequences. The state Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, gave this warning in statement by the state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, following the alleged issuance of a notice by the group informing residents of their intention to strike in the state. The police in state warned that the faceless group of criminal elements would meet their waterloo should they make good their alleged threat as it had the wherewithal to deal decisively with them. The statement added that the police in Ogun were not perturbed by the faceless group’s “mischievous letter,” adding that it was only responding to the alleged “threat letters” from the group just to allay the fears being entertained by residents of the state. It further stated that because the police command in the state was aware that some criminal elements might want to exploit the lockdown in the state to perpetrate crime, it had since activated all its tactical squads and put on the alert to deal decisively with any one or group of persons wanting to foment trouble in the state. The police, therefore, enjoined all residents of the state not to panic as its operatives were  capable and up to the task of securing the state and its people. It, however, warned residents of the state to desist from rumour-mongering and jungle justice to suspected persons, stating that anyone caught for these offences would be made to bear the full weight of the law. The statement reads, “The attention of the Ogun State Police Command has been drawn to a letter purportedly written by a faceless group who calls itself “One Million Boys” to the good people of Ogun State informing them of their intention to storm the state to carry out criminal activities. “The command wouldn’t have dignified the said letter with a response, but for the purpose of allaying the fear of good people of the state, the response becomes necessary. “To start with, the Command is not perturbed by the mischievous letter because we have what it takes to deal decisively with any criminal gang who may want to infiltrate the state under any guise or nomenclature. “Since the commencement of the lockdown ordered by the Federal Government, the  Command is not oblivious of the fact that some hoodlums may want to take advantage of the situation to perpetrate one crime or the other and that informed the decision of the Commissioner of Police, CP Kenneth Ebrimson, to activate all the Command’s tactical squads such as SARS, Anti-Kidnapping Unit, Anti- Cultism Unit, PMF as well as other conventional policemen and put them on red alert with  the mandate to deal ruthlessly with anyone or group that may want to make life difficult for law-abiding citizens of the state. “The Command therefore wishes to assure the good people of the Gateway State not to panic or be unnecessarily apprehensive as the Command will not allow any hoodlum to fester or hibernate in the state. “The command also wishes to warn those who are in the habit of sending fake news capable of causing fear in the minds of the people to desist from such devilish act as the command will be tracing the source of such fake news with a view to dealing with the author in accordance with the existing laws of the land. “Also, the commissioner of police is using this medium to send a note of warning to those who have formed the habit of taking laws into their hands by embarking on jungle justice to deal with suspected criminals, adding that anybody caught in such act will be seriously dealt with. “A case study at hand  is that of  four innocent young men that were mistaken for armed robbers who were arrested, beaten and tied both hands and leg by members of the public at Oke Ata area of Abeokuta on Thursday 23rd of April 2020. “Save for the quick intervention of policemen attached to the state task force, the four young men would have been beaten to death. “The commissioner of police has ordered a full scale investigation into the circumstances surrounding the inhuman treatment meted to these young men with a view to bringing  those involved to justice. The outcome of the investigation, the Commissioner assured will be made known to members of the public.” 