All Progressives Congress National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and his wife, Senator Oluremi have tested negative for COVID-19. But one of his aides tested positive and has been isolated. Samples of Tinubu, his wife and some of his aides were taken for testing after the result of his deceased Chief Security Officer, Alhaji Lateef Raheem, came out positive. Late Raheem died last Friday but his sample was taken by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control for COVID-19 testing as a precautionary measure. The result came out positive, prompting the APC leader, his wife and some of his aides to submit themselves for testing. The results came out this morning, according to a statement by Tinubu, while “test results for both Asiwaju and Senator Tinubu were negative. “The results of one aide was positive. The rest of the staff were negative. The one staff member has been isolated in accordance with NCDC guidelines.” The statement added that further contact tracing and COVID-19 tests were being conducted by the NCDC for the relatives and possible contacts of that staff member. The APC chieftain, however, advised that openness and transparency must be observed for the nation to defeat the dreaded COVID-19. “There is no house immune to its entry. Contracting the virus should not bring social or moral stigma any more than contracting malaria or a common cold. We cannot overcome this challenge by acting like it does not exist or by trying to conceal that someone may have it due to social shame. The culture of denial is counter-productive and will do great harm in our current situation,” Tinubu said in the statement. The APC leader also advised Nigerians not be afraid to be tested if they have any symptoms or exposed to someone who has been infected. Tinubu said, “We must do all we can to contain the spread of the virus and to well treat those of us who have been hit by it. “As you go about your day, we know you must find daily sustenance. Yet, please continue to do all you can to maintain social distance and to take all other public health measures to protect yourself and others. In this way, we all may contribute to halt the spread of this dangerous virus.” 