…says past profligacy by leadership’ll worsen post-coronavirus experience . ‘Nigerians’ll feel negative impact of crude price crash in two months’ time’ . FG must reduce cost of governance- Analyst A renowned political economist and management expert, Prof Pat Utomi, has warned that Nigeria’s recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic will be an uphill task as the country will be confronted with unimaginable socio-economic problems of a multi-dimensional nature as it struggles to wriggle out of the global economic meltdown that will result from the deadly disease. Utomi stated this in an exclusive chat with The Point, saying that the past profligacy and indulgences inflicted on the country’s already weak economy by corrupt leadership and politicians would worsen the effects and impact of coronavirus on Nigeria and her citizens by the end of the pandemic. He argued that Nigerians would only realise the damaging effects of the “politics of plundering” that politicians had for decades unleashed on the country, after the COVID-19 pandemic. As at Friday, coronavirus had spread to 26 states and the Federal Capital Territory, with 1,095 cases recorded across the country by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. While 208 patients had been discharged, 32 had died. President Muhammadu Buhari had on March 29 ordered a lockdown of the Federal Capital Territory, Lagos and Ogun states for 14 days to curb the spread of the deadly disease. Many states also followed suit. But with the daily rise in the number of COVID-19 cases, the President on April 13 extended the lockdown for 14 more days, a decision economic experts say has grinded the nation’s economy to almost a halt. Economic experts say that Nigeria, which runs a mono-economy and derives over 80 per cent of its revenue from crude oil sales, currently risks another recession by the end of this year due to massive decline in crude prices. This, they warn, may inevitably result in a depression. Due to the raging COVID-19 pandemic, Nigeria’s N10.59 trillion budget for 2020, which was benchmarked against a crude oil price of $57 per barrel at an output of 2.18 million barrels per day, and which was signed into effect in December 2019 by President Muhammadu Buhari, they argue, is no longer realistic. To contain this emerging global economic reality and because of the steep decline in demand and a crash of crude oil price in the international markets, the President Buhari-led administration has proposed a downward review of the 2020 benchmark price of crude from $57 per barrel to $30 per barrel, while reflecting an exigent cut in output from 2.18 million barrels per day to 1.7 million bpd. But economic experts say these adjustments would translate into a scaling down of revenue projections by N3.3 trillion, from the earlier N8.41 trillion to about N5.08 trillion in the 2020 fiscal year, in addition to the initial cut in the budget by N320 billion, from N10.59 trillion to N10.27 trillion. WHY NIGERIANS’LL SUFFER FROM LOSS OF REVENUE FROM OIL IN TWO MONHTS’ TIME Utomi, however, warned that in the next two months Nigerians would begin to feel the negative impact of the crash of the prices of crude oil in the international market. The political economist told The Point that since the country’s leadership and politicians, against the advice of experts and for lack of foresight, had for several years, failed to plan for unpalatable situations such as the COVID-19 pandemic had imposed on the entire world, Nigerians should brace for the monumental hardship that they would experience after the current global health challenge would have been addressed. Utomi said that the country failed to build economic assets and refused to use earnings from its crude oil sales to fund special projects such as building the necessary infrastructure that could have helped her to cope with the effects of a global economic recession. He stated that COVID-19 had only exacerbated the already parlous economy Nigeria was operating before the outbreak of the deadly disease and had further driven the nation into the quagmire from which it might not come out from so soon after the current pandemic might have been forgotten by the rest of the world. The political economist further noted that rather than taking steps to increase the nation’s production capacity, the leadership preferred importing goods and services, thereby doing more damage to the country’s economy. HOW TO BEAT POST-CORONAVIRUS PANDEMIC PROBLEMS Utomi, however, added that for the problems of Nigerians to be mitigated after the pandemic, spending on public and political office holders must be drastically cut down by the government. He advised that after the COVID-19 pandemic, holding of elective political offices should be on part time basis as legislators at all levels should be made to earn their living from their different professions. The economic expert also urged the leadership of the country to “activate massive agricultural practice” after the pandemic in order to save her economy from totally crashing. Utomi said, “I think it’s important to bear in mind that the economy had already turned a bad corner before COVID-19. COVID-19 only accelerated the pace of the downturn. “It is really important that we build economic assets. For more than 20 years, we have argued that the income from oil should be considered a bonus, and that most of the revenues got from crude oil should be used to fund special projects like building of infrastructure. Imagine the infrastructure that can be used for hundreds of years by different generations. But one generation out of all chose to take what belongs to all generations. “The desire to always want to buy imported products is in fact doing more damage to us in that we use it to inoculate ourselves against the capacity to produce. “After the lockdown has been lifted and a cure has been found for the coronavirus, politicians and government officials’ salaries should be drastically reduced so that the money can be used to revive the economy.” He further said, “Our politicians are practising the politics of plundering. They spend extravagantly on frivolous things, too many staff. In the 60s, government officials lived a simpler life and returned to their original professions after their tenure. So, it is safe to say that the damage to the country started from 1999 and the 2000s. Obasanjo cannot say he would not take part of the blame. It started gradually, later it went ballistic. The kind of money the politicians steal encourage the civil servants to also have the corrupt notion. “If we want to get things right after COVID-19, let them return money that goes into the pockets of these politicians. For instance, let there be no official cars for the legislators, no allowances and others. In fact, after legislation, let them go back to their jobs as doctors, lawyers etc. They should not be living and surviving on legislation. And how can that be done because they are the ones who make the laws? So, they have held us hostage in the country. “Let me tell you, this system is not working again; so, we need to crash this system and begin again. You will see what will happen soon. Crude is disappearing to zero very soon. Now, we have the receipt of the sales in last month which is not good. In the next two months, we will begin to see the result of the oil sales on the economy. What that means is that they will go to the bank accounts and share the remaining money, which is not even enough to pay half of the workers’ salaries of the states. When this happens, and some people are keeping money in their accounts while hunger looms, you will see that people will rush to the government house and put it on fire. “For the country to rebound from the COVID-19 effects, we need to quickly activate massive agricultural practice.  Without this, hell will be let loose on our economy.” WHY FG MUST CUT SPENDING ON GOVERNANCE Speaking in the same vein, an economic analyst, Femi Ologunwa, urged the government to consider a drastic reduction in its spending on governance to enable the country to recover quickly from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Ologunwa told The Point that Nigerians would not realise the effects of the ravaging disease on the country’s economy until after the pandemic. He said that the spending on the National Assembly and the Executive arm of government was too enormous and should be drastically scaled down if the country would get out of the economic problems that the ravaging disease had pushed it into. The analyst said, “There is no doubt that our economy is dying from COVID-19 effects. After this crisis, you will see how deep it has eaten deep into our economy. Many companies will fold up, workers will be laid off and lots of things will go bad for the people and the government itself. “But the easy way for the government to come out of the mess will be to seriously reduce the money going into governance. Already, not less than N120billion is spent by the National Assembly and about N2trillion by government as a whole. This is a huge sum that should be reduced if we love ourselves. Already, oil cannot help us again, and going into agriculture, though will help, not immediately. So, the only way is to manage what we have in our hands.” 