The Federal Government said on Wednesday that it has embarked on gradual and phased re-opening of the country’s economy within the next six weeks. It said that the six-week period would be broken into three tranches of two weeks each. The government said that the gradual ease-up would be done every two weeks over the next six weeks. Secretary to the Government of the Federation and Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Boss Mustapha, disclosed this in Abuja at the 22nd joint national briefing of the committee. According to him, to underscore the collaborative efforts with state governments, they are encouraged to provide leadership in engaging relevant associations responsible for various sectors like market associations and transport unions for orderly and effective implementation. “The gradual reopening of the economy will span a total of six weeks broken into three tranches of two weeks each. This phased strategy is designed to reduce the pains of socio-economic disruptions while strengthening our public health response, which would ultimately reduce the recovery of our economy and provide succour to the poor and vulnerable,” Mustapha said. He said that the reassuring telephone conversation between President Muhammadu Buhari and President Donald Trump of the United States, during which they exchanged ideas on emergency responses, further highlighted the global response to this pandemic and underscored the collaboration between all nations in solving the problem. Mustapha commended the offer of ventilators by the American President but said the PTF had developed sector-specific guidelines. He urged security agencies to strictly enforce these new measures that have been put in place. He said the overnight curfew is applicable nationwide from 8.00pm to 06.00am daily, effective Monday, May 4, 2020. Inter-state travels remain banned except for the movement of goods, agro-products, petroleum products, and essential services, among others as directed by the President. He said the management of various offices, premises and businesses that will be gradually re-opened are mandated to ensure fumigation and decontamination; arrangement made for physical distancing; provision of hand sanitizers and hand washing facilities; application of the policy on mandatory use of face masks; provision of thermometers for temperature checks. He also said that consideration must be given to persons living with disabilities; increased communication with staff on COVID-19 and measures put in place; and any other measure that may be peculiar for the organisations and or sector. He added, “Mass gathering of more than 20 people outside of a workplace is strictly prohibited; controlled access to neighbourhood markets and locations of economic activities will be enforced; mandatory temperature checks will be conducted in public places; social distancing of two metres to be maintained between people in workplaces and other public places. “All passenger flights remain under ban; and mandatory supervised isolation of persons arriving from outside the country for at least 14 days.” The SGF urged state governments in collaboration with security agencies and relevant trade associations to strongly ensure that these measures are strictly enforced. He said that the easing of restrictions and introduction of revised measures did not amount to the end of this battle against COVID-19, but signified the need for more vigilance and stringent compliance so that the nation was not lulled into complacence capable of diminishing the progress made so far. On Kano State’s cases, Mustapha said that the technical team of public health experts sent by the PTF had begun the evaluation of the situation in the state, working in collaboration with the state’s team. He said, “I am pleased to also inform you that the operationalization of the laboratories in Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital and Bayero University Kano, will considerably improve our response to the pandemic in Kano State. Additionally, 50 trucks of assorted grains have been sent to Kano and due for delivery within the next 48 hours.” Talking about the role of research in this exercise, he said the nation must encourage local scientists and deepen Nigeria’s capacity for research. He said that there is a huge role for all relevant research institutes to play at this time and that the Federal Ministry of Health is coordinating the process in conjunction with the National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR) and the Nigerian Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Development (NIPRD). “We have received information on domestic and international claims about emerging inventions on COVID-19. These are most welcome but scientific validation process and protocols will have to be followed. We are open to all options for the good of humanity,” he added. 