…says Obaseki, Akeredolu may hand over to Assemblies’ Speakers Human rights activist and constitution expert, Chief Mike Ozekhome, SAN, has said that the exit dates for the governors of both Edo and Ondo states remain sacrosanct and cannot be extended by anyone under the guise of the raging COVID-19 pandemic. Ozekhome told our correspondent that if the currently ravaging COVID-19 pandemic persisted and the Independent National Electoral Commission could not conduct the governorship elections in the two states as scheduled, the country’s constitution would be invoked to address the crisis. He spoke against the backdrop of apprehension by politicians, especially governorship aspirants in the two states, who are now agitated that the outbreak and spread of COVID-19 in the country would affect the timetable and eventually the date of the governorship elections in the two states. Inspite of the assurances from INEC, however, politicians have continued to express fears that the conduct of this year’s governorship elections in the two states may not be a reality due to the ravaging deadly disease, which has compelled political parties to put on hold all preparations for even their primaries for the selection of their candidates. He stated that but the terminal dates in office for Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State and that of his Ondo State counterpart, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, would not be extended by one day, whether INEC conducted the gubernatorial polls on the scheduled dates in the two states or not. President Muhammadu Buhari had on March 29 ordered a lockdown of the Federal Capital Territory, Lagos and Ogun states for 14 days to curb the spread of the deadly disease. Many states also followed suit. But with the daily rise in the number of COVID-19 cases, the President on April 13, extended the lockdown for 14 more days, a decision that has brought the nation’s economic and political activities to a halt. Before the outbreak of COVID-19, the Edo and Ondo governorship elections were scheduled for September 19 and October 10, 2020, respectively. While political parties in Edo are expected to conduct their primaries between June 2 and 27, in Ondo, the exercise is expected to hold between July 2 and 25. But as at the time of filing this report, nothing was being done in the two states concerning the scheduled polls due to the restrictions imposed by government to check the spread of the ravaging coronavirus. Our correspondent gathered that as at the weekend, none of the various political parties had fixed any date for the sale of expression of interest and nomination forms. The parties have also yet to constitute electoral and appeal committees for their scheduled primaries. But Ozekhome, who is also a Benin high chief, insisted that both Obaseki and Akeredolu would have to hand over power to the Speakers of their respective Houses of Assembly, if INEC could not conduct a fresh governorship election in the two states by the last day of their tenure in office. According to him, “As a constitution expert, the tenure of a governor or President is four years of two tenure, which is eight years. Aside from that, no Jupiter can add or move the date when the tenure expires. The date is like a rock of Gibraltar. “We just pray that this coronavirus pandemic that is ravaging the whole world will end soon. Otherwise, if the Independent National Electoral Commission fails to conduct elections as earlier announced by them, then the constitutional provisions will be invoked. That means, the governors will hand over power to their Speakers pending when INEC conducts elections in which they (governors) can also participate.” The Edo State-born philanthropist, who also spoke about the coincidence in the death of Aliyu Umar and Malam Abba Kyari, former Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, advised Nigerians to obey the directives of the Federal Government by observing social distancing and other health precautions. On his decision to give palliatives to some Nigerians to cushion their suffering during this coronavirus pandemic, Ozekhome said his background encouraged him to always give to the needy having experienced hardship earlier before making it. He said, “Giving is part of me. I suffered when I was young. I went to farm in the morning before going to school. No foot wear, drank dirty water. I then promised myself that if I made it in life, I’ll help people around me. That is what I am doing today. I have given out scholarships to indigent students in both secondary and higher schools. This I will keep on doing.” On the recent death of the former chief of staff to President Buhari, Ozekhome said, “The death of Abba Kyari saddens me. It saddens me because of his apparently negative place in history, as I behold many Nigerians gloat over his death. I will not. Death follows us about like our shadow. We must all die one day. The questions are when, where, why and how? The bigger question is, what legacies do we leave in the hearts of the people we meet or govern during our lives? “Abba Kyari was not just the power behind the throne and the heartbeat of government. He was, indeed, the de jure President, the arrow-head of the infamous cabal that ruthlessly misgoverns Nigeria with ferocious and brutal mercilessness. Oh Allah, forgive him his sins and grant him Alijanah Firdausi.” Chief Mike Ozekhome however said that the death of Abba Kyari and Aliyu Umar on same day was just coincidental that no one should gloat over their death. 