…White House cancels media briefing as Trump rails against ‘enemy’ More than 150 Italian doctors have died of the novel coronavirus since February, the FNOMCeO health association said Monday. The toll among doctors had reached 100 on April 9. The health association said it now stood at 151. Italy’s official death toll rose by 333 to 26,977 on Monday. It reported 1,739 new infections, the lowest number since the first half of March. Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte has announced a gradual easing of Italy’s lockdown starting next Monday, when people will be allowed to take walks for the first time since March 9. Most stores and other businesses will open by May 18, but restaurants will only resume dine-in service on June 1, when pubs and bars also open. Meanwhile the White House abruptly canceled Monday’s daily media briefing on the coronavirus pandemic after President Donald Trump railed against “enemy” journalists and officials signaled a new public relations strategy. This would be the third consecutive day without a briefing, an event which has been a fixture for weeks, but became a public relations disaster for the president last Thursday when he suggested people could inject disinfectants to fight the virus. The White House had scheduled a briefing for late afternoon, then issued an update saying it was canceled. Over the weekend, none was scheduled and on Friday the president left without taking questions. Trump has been ridiculed around the world for Thursday’s disinfectant comment, which he later claimed was meant to be sarcasm aimed at journalists, although he was clearly talking directly to his medical advisors. He has also been incensed the last few days by unflattering newspaper reports about his work habits and use of the sometimes two-hour briefings to praise himself, while battering rivals. On Monday, he kept up an anti-media tweet storm begun over the weekend, writing: “FAKE NEWS, THE ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE!” “There has never been, in the history of our Country, a more vicious or hostile Lamestream Media than there is right now, even in the midst of a National Emergency, the Invisible Enemy!” Trump also wrote. (AFP) 