… for compiling beneficiaries’ names Inspite of the raging COVID-19 pandemic, the political struggle for the soul of Edo State has taken a different dimension with Governor Godwin Obaseki allegedly ordering the arrest of some ward chairmen of the ruling All Progressives Congress in the state for compiling lists of members to benefit from the Federal Government’s relief package meant for the residents of the state. Already, the Chairman of the APC Oredo Ward 8, Mr. Sunday Erhabor, had been arrested for allegedly compiling names of those to be paid cash during the ongoing lockdown in the state. This is also coming on the heels of the governor’s alleged denial of his initial orders to the party’s local government chairmen to communicate to all ward chairmen to compile 8,000 names from each ward to receive stimulus package from the state government, to enable them to comply with the stay-at-home order of the government. Although 18 local government party chairmen passed the order to their ward chairmen claiming it was coming directly from the governor, our correspondent could not ascertain if truly they were directed by the governor or the LGA chairmen took this decision on their own. But considering the fact that the party council chairmen lack the financial capacity to take such a decision on their own, the governor, it was alleged must have backed out of an initial agreement having realised that it could backfire. Our correspondent gathered that Oredo Ward 8 chairman, Erhabor, who was arrested by the operatives of the State Criminal Investigation Department on the alleged orders of Governor Obaseki, had reportedly told the police that the order to compile names was from his local government chairman who was part of a previous meeting with the governor, who allegedly gave the order for the names to be collated from each wards in respect to the now-abandoned stimulus package. The governor was said to have backed out of the planned and already politicised stimulus package deal, claiming the state lacked the resources to carry out such an exercise. The Point gathered that the governor, who birthed the plan for the stimulus package to be secretly shared among those sympathetic to his second term in office, had hinged his hope on the Federal Government disbursing funds directly to states for the exercise. But to his dismay, the Federal Government opted to transfer cash directly to the vulnerable in the society through its Conditional Cash Transfer programme. Just to save his face and make the APC council bosses appear cheap before their people, it was learnt, the governor sought the arrest of all local government party chairmen, who were said to have worked according to his initial orders and instructions. A source privy to the arrangement, but who pleaded anonymity, told our correspondent that the governor, who might have concluded plans to defect to another party over his fears of losing the APC ticket, has vowed to deal with the party council chairmen and weaken the popularity of the APC at the LGA level. An APC youth leader, Chris Osa, said, “To this end, Oredo party chairman, Mr. Alabi and Secretary, Mrs. Isekure, have since gone into hiding sensing that the governor is after them. There is always a victim in every case; in this case, Oredo Ward 08 chairman, Sunny Erhabor, has fallen victim to Obaseki’s desire to carry out his selfish interest, all in the name of politicising COVID-19 pandemic, and intimidating those opposed to his re-election.” But an aide to Governor Obaseki on New Media, Lovett Osarugua Dioru, while wishing the APC National CHairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, a happy 68th birthday, said, “I am wondering where you are at this trying time of Covid-19 pandemic. Sir, this is the time to feel your attention and care to Edo people. “And again, why are you and your followers with all your wealth, not working hand in hand with the Edo State Government under the leadership of Governor Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki to fight this Covid-19 pandemic in Edo State, by donating to the state government just as others are doing in their states? Why are they not in partnership with Governor Godwin Obaseki as citizens of Edo State to help fight Covid-19 pandemic and provide for those in need? Instead of joining hands by donating any of their relief packages to the state government, they are busy using it for their political campaign strategy. “Sir, in as much as you can do more than any other at the Federal level, we the people of Edo State are yet to feel you and your followers’ impact. Sir, you and your followers should work with Governor Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki and not capitalising on the Covid-19 to exploit our people’s vulnerabilities. “Let’s STOP this HATRED for one another. Covid-19 doesn’t know brother, friend, enemy, witch, bad, good, husband, wife, father, mother, children, old, young, etc. It kills, takes away joy, it takes jobs, it takes away peace, it takes away wealth, it takes away merriment and most all it is killing the human race. HUNGER is in the Land. Let’s collaborate with Edo State Government under the leadership of Governor Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki to put an end to this deadly plague.” Meanwhile, Edo AP members are upbeat about their forthcoming primaries inspite of the coronavirus pandemic. Before the outbreak of the virus, the state had witnessed a high tempo of politicking. The frequency was so high that Edo State 2020 election was the trending topic for months. Political activities are gearing up as the clock gradually ticks closer towards the forthcoming party primaries. Osigwe Omo-Ikirodah a veteran journalist in Edo State said, “It is unfortunate that this may not be the right time for politicking but if the truth must be said, leadership abhors a vacuum and responsive leadership is what is needed in times of crisis. A proactive and sympathetic government would do all within its ability to repose the confidence the people have entrusted in them. “Edo APC members are currently bubbling about their forthcoming primaries. The party members and leaders are claiming they can’t wait to exercise their franchise at the primaries. Ogiemwonyi, Dr. Pius Odubu, and Pastor Osagie Ize-iyamu’s response to the COVID-19 towards the party members have given them a sharp boost ahead of Obaseki, who they claimed has always alienated them in all his dealings both within and out of governance. “They claimed that the only response they got from Obaseki as regards the coronavirus outbreak was when members of OSM were collating account details to distribute to their factional members who are set to dump the APC for AA.” An APC grassroots mobiliser from Oredo Ward 4, which happens to be the governor’s ward, claimed APC was once a party that the members and the governor were friends. Meanwhile, Governor Obaseki has recalled his campaign organisation and has made resources available for a mass membership drive. Obaseki may go for a direct primary but with a plan B of a defection to take the Action Alliance ticket if the results turn out negative. Politicians are quietly scheming in anticipation of a grand party primary. September 19 is the date and foot soldiers are back to the political trenches. 