…launch manhunt for APC national vice chairman, LG boss for flouting gov’s order The Police in Nasarawa State have arrested two top Nasarawa State Government officials for violating the restriction order on public and social gatherings placed Governor Abdullahi Sule. The government officials arrested include the Overseer of Lafia North Local Government Council in the state capital, Alhaji Suleman Agyo and the Acting Registrar of Emir Mustapha Agwai Polytechnic (formerly Nasarawa Polytechnic) in Lafia, Mukhtar Wakeel. Videos of the Overseer’s wedding had gone viral on social media, especially among Lafia residents, as he wedded a second wife in Lungun Wambai in Lafia, the state capital. The state Commissioner of Police, Bola Longe, who confirmed the arrest of the duo on Sunday, said the two officials would be prosecuted for violating the social distancing order of the governor. He added that the suspects passed the night in detention at the Police “A” Division in the state, saying investigation would continue. The police also said it had begun intense search for the National Vice Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (North Central), Alhaji Sulieman Wambai and the Overseer of Lafia East Development Area Council, Shuaibu Buba, who are on the run, for attending the marriage ceremony against the state government’s order. The Police said the action of the two government officials violated the movement restriction order put in place by the state government to curb the spread of coronavirus in the state, as gathering of more than 20 people have been banned. It was also gathered that frantic efforts by the erring officials to get in touch with the governor to direct their release failed, as he was said to have insisted that they should bear the full weight of the law. The state’s Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Dr Abdulkarim Kana, also confirmed the arrests. Governor Sule had suspended all marriage and naming ceremonies in addition to banning all social gatherings in the state. Kana, said, “The proclamation by the Governor is binding on everybody, no matter how highly placed one is in the society. “The violators would continue to be in detention, they would be charged to court immediately the courts resume.” 