Some suspects arrested by the police in Ekiti State have recounted how they killed a traditional ruler in Ikole Ekiti, Chief Shola Fatunla. Fatunla, 35, who until his death on April 5 was Onibedo of Iloro area in Ikole-Ekiti, Ikole Local Government Area of Ekiti State, had been accused of snatching Tadeni, ex-wife of one of the suspects identified as Sunday Aernan, the leader of the gang. Sunday has apologised to Chief Fatunla’s family once he got to know that the deceased and his wife (Tadeni) were mere family friends. The marriage between Sunday and Tadeni, though collapsed, it was blessed with two kids. Commenting on the alleged crime, the state police  Public Relations Officer, Sunday Abutu, described the case as one bearing on conspiracy to murder, attempted murder and murder. According to him,” On April 5, 2020, about 12 am, Sunday Aernan, male, 30, an indigene of Benue State, but residing in Ikole-Ekiti, invited Chief Fatunla Shola, 35, of Ikole-Ekiti, and Adebo Tadeni, female, 35, of Ikole-Ekiti to come and help him settle a dispute between himself, Sunday, and an unidentified Igbira man in his farm at Itapaji farm settlement, Ikole-Ekiti. “On arrival at the farm, Sunday Aernan, who had already arranged three of his gang members and informed them of his intention to kill Chief Fatunla Shola, immediately called them out of the bush where they were hiding and waiting for Fatunla. Sunday Aernan then instructed them to apprehend both the chief and Adebo Tadeni, which they did. “Aernan and his three accomplices; Jonathan Elijah, 19; Aoufa Sule Obasanjo, 24 and Moses Iornal , 24, bound their feet and hands. “According to their confessional statements obtained, they tortured the chief with sticks and bottles and thereafter, tied him to a tree. They also took Adebo Tadeni to another location and tied her to a tree there. “Sunday and his accomplices returned to the Chief, set him ablaze and watched him burn to death. “Thereafter, they returned to where they had earlier tied Adebo Tadeni, but did not find her because according to her statement, she was able to use her teeth to untie herself and then ran away. “The statement also identified items recovered from the scene of the incident to include sticks, rope, cutlass, four Android phones, one burnt Jerry can, one necklace and beads. “The incident was reported in our Divisional Police Station in Ikole-Ekiti and our intelligence operatives swung into action immediately. Intelligence information led to the arrest of Sunday Aernan and his three gang members while they were trying to escape from the state, and they have all made confessional statements to have committed the crime, ” The PPRO, however, said the suspects would be charged to court as soon as investigation had been concluded on the case. 