…urges Gov Obaseki, Assembly speaker to produce budget passage report A Non-Governmental Organisation, Esan Solidarity Movement, has accused the Edo State Government of implementing the 2020 budget which has no input of all the members of the state House of Assembly. The ESM alleged that some few members of the Assembly colluded with the Executive under the leadership of Governor Godwin Obaseki to fill in desired figures and inflate cost of projects with the ultimate objective of siphoning funds which they intended to commit to the prosecution of the September governorship election in the state. ESM media representative, Osamudiamen Ehidiamen, claimed that Obaseki’s administration had forwarded an ‘empty budget’ to the factional Assembly with no figures allocated to listed items and proposed government spending, thereby giving the Legislators nothing to work with or to perform their constitutional oversight functions. Accusing the Speaker, Frank Okiye, of being a party to the alleged budget fraud, the NGO said that few legislators passed the ‘empty budget’ and returned to Governor Obaseki to fill in desired numbers, opening the state’s treasury to the governor and giving him unchecked, unlimited spending power. Ehidiamen challenged the state government to make public the report of the verbatim reporter of the House of Assembly with regards to the proceedings of all sittings for the specific plenaries in which the 2020 budgetary issues were addressed by the House to allow the public to see the kind of oversight carried out on it. Before now, CSOs in the state had raised the alarm on the composition of the state House of Assembly in which few members hold sessions to the exclusion of the majority. The emergence of the speaker was greeted with controversy and drew condemnation from both arms of the National Assembly. In their independent investigations, the Senate and House of Representatives passed a resolution affirming accusations by the majority of the Edo members-elect that the inauguration exercise that produced Okiye as the Speaker lacked legal backing. The Clerk of the Assembly, while testifying before separate committees set up to investigate the crisis, admitted that he, alongside few members-elect present for the purported inauguration exercise, were forcibly kidnapped from their homes and no notice was sent to the other members. Governor Obaseki has been accused of several allegations bearing on fraud, mismanagement of public funds and the abuse of power and use of state resources to prosecute personal political ambitions. His handling of COVID19 in the state has also earned him scathing criticism from different quarters. The NMA and other professional bodies have accused the state government of dishonest communication and failure to make available basic medical equipment needed for the protection of health workers. 