Zamfara State Government, on Thursday, warned Osun State against deporting Northern youths who allegedly sneaked into the state. Special Adviser to the Governor on Public Enlightenment, Media and Communications, Zailani Bappa, gave this warning in a statement. Osun had on Wednesday raised the alarm over the large influx of northern youths, especially Zamfara indigenes, into the state. Deputy Chief of Staff to the Osun State Governor, Prince Adeyanju Biniyo, had accused the northerners of “sneaking” into the state, threatening that the Osun Amotekun Corps had been notified to arrest and deport the “strangers.” But Bappa in his reaction faulted Binuyo, claiming that the Zamfara’s youths are Nigerians who have the right to reside anywhere within the country. According to the statement, “The attention of Zamfara State Government was drawn to a story credited to the Deputy Chief of Staff to the Governor of Osun State, Prince Adeyanju Abdullahi Biniyo, where he alleged “an influx of Zamfara indigenes” into the state and described it as “dangerous”. “As if the entrants brought in war, he also called on the Osun indigenes ‘not to panic’ as the state has instructed Amotekun to fish them out and ensure that anyone escorting trucks that offload goods is turned back and escorted out of the state. “Doubtlessly, the above position as portrayed by the Deputy Chief of Staff is not statesmanly and smacks of bad taste. Indeed, it is condescending and totally negates good practices expected of leaders in a Federal setting such as Nigeria. “It is, therefore, against federal law to instruct Amotekun to arrest “all Northern Youth who had escaped into the state by hiding in trucks” as quoted by Mr Binuyo for deportation back to their so-called state of origin. “Nigeria and the World at large is facing a serious and challenging pandemic. All civilised societies are joining hands together to fight the spread of this pandemic and even extending helping hands to others. It is, therefore, disheartening that Osun state will take the path of isolating assumed outsiders and segregating what should be a common fight by all Nigerians.” 