…as company urges FG to order Rivers govt to release detained pilots A  Chief Magistrate’s Court sitting in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, has remanded 10 passengers for flying into the Air Force Base in the state capital aboard the Twin-Otter Caverton helicopters. The court presided over by Chief Magistrate D. D. Ihua-Maduenyi Esq, said that the passengers’ action contravened paragraph 8 of the state’s Executive Order RSVG-01 2020. The defendants, who pleaded not guilty to a four-count charge preferred against them by the state, were ordered to be remanded at any government facility to enable medical personnel from the state conduct tests to determine their coronavirus (COVID-19) status. The prosecution team was led the Rivers State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Prof. Z. Adangor. On Tuesday, the same Court had remanded two pilots of Caverton Helicopters, Samuel Ugorji and Samuel Buhari, in prison custody for allegedly disobeying the state Governor’s Executive Order aimed at checking the spread of coronavirus in the state. The Court remanded the two pilots at the Port Harcourt Custodial Centre till May 19, 2020 when their trial will commence. Chief Magistrate Ihua-Maduenyi ruled that COVID-19 tests be carried out on the two pilots to ascertain their status. The Pilots, who were arrested by police in the state, were arraigned via charge number: PMC/532C/2020. Prosecution counsel and Officer-in-charge, Legal, Rivers State Police Command, Superintendent Gladys Amadi, told the court that the acts of the two pilots were capable of putting the entire state in danger of contracting coronavirus. She urged the court to remand them in prison custody to enable the police conclude its investigation. She noted that allowing the accused persons roam the streets would endanger others in the state. ‘Detention is unjust’ Meanwhile, Caverton has described the detention of its pilots in Rivers as unjust, saying it got the necessary approvals to operate since the COVID-19 lockdown began. The company called on the Federal Government to urge the Rivers State Government to release its pilots, saying, “They violated no law and are being unduly punished for reasons we still do not understand.” According to statement, “At the start of the COVID -19 lockdown, we received a letter from our client stating that they have been given approval/ exemption to fly and continue operations. “We (Caverton along with three other companies) also received approval from the Minister of Aviation to fly only essential services, mainly in the Oil and Gas industry. “Lastly, we got another approval from the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to fly for this same oil and gas sector. We have been flying along these guidelines for the past seven days. “Today, we were informed that the Governor of Rivers State, Mr Nyesom Wike, was coming to address the operators in Port Harcourt and our people waited. But on arriving, the governor directed two of our pilots to be taken to CID, where they were told to write statements. “Despite all pleas by our lawyers, who showed all the relevant documents, they were taken to the magistrate court and charged. “At the court, our lawyers also presented all the documentations approving us to fly by the Federal Government, but the case was closed and the pilots have been remanded in Port Harcourt prison till the 19th May.” 