The Nigeria Labour Congress has kicked against the exclusion of Nigeria from the International Monetary Fund’s list of countries to benefit from its debt relief due to the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic. The IMF had earlier on Tuesday announced the approval of a debt relief fund to 25 countries, most of which are African countries, but excluding Nigeria, the most populous country in Africa. IMF Managing Director, Kristalina Georgieva, said in a statement that it would provide $500m in grant-based debt service relief to the countries. Those countries enlisted to benefit from the relief fund, according to IMF,But include: Afghanistan, Benin, Burkina Faso, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo D.R., The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Liberia. Others are: Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Rwanda, São Tomé and Príncipe, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Tajikistan, Togo and Yemen. But in his reaction to the development, NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, said that Nigeria, as a major regional transportation hub, should not have been excluded from the list of beneficiaries. “The implication is that a population as large as Nigeria’s with very active citizens could be a major epicenter for future global waves of COVID-19 if very robust and adequate support is not extended to Nigeria to fight and contain the coronavirus pandemic,” he said. The NLC president said, “During the two weeks initial lockdown in Lagos, Ogun and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), there were reports of increased tension, unrest and criminal activities in different parts of the country.” He noted that as COVID-19 scourge bites harder, even rich countries in Europe and America are struggling to keep up with the supply of essential medical goods and services. According to Wabba, “The fact is that the dangers of a burgeoning constituency of the poor including the working-class poor are staring us hard in the face. “We do not know how long this dam can hold. But we do know that Nigeria needs all the support it can get, including debt relief, moratorium, and pardon in order to enable the country tide over the waves of COVID-19 pandemic.” The NLC president urged the IMF to reconsider its decision and include Nigeria in its beneficiary list for the COVID-19 related debt relief and debt moratorium based on very cogent reasons. He listed the grounds upon which Nigeria should be included in the relief funds to include “dire economic crisis in Nigeria, given the recent plunge in the price of crude oil, Nigeria’s major foreign exchange earner.” This plunge in the price of crude oil has already led to the downsizing of the capital expenditure in the 2020 national budget, he added. He also noted that as at December 2019, “Nigeria’s external debt hit a 16 year high of US$27 billion with a debt servicing commitment of US$1.5 billion. “The fact that Nigeria’s debt servicing is about 5% of our 2020 federal budget and 75% of our external reserves signpost that our debt servicing pledges are impracticable and should be renegotiated,” Wabba said. Wabba said in order to mobilise the necessary financial resources to fight and defeat COVID-19, developing economies should be granted temporary suspension of debt payments, re-negotiation of debt obligations, and ultimately debt pardon by creditor countries. 