Residents of Denro, Ishashi, Akute area of Ogun State on Sunday night confronted some suspected armed robbers that attacked the communities. The incident, which later made the residents to resolve to keeping vigil since then, started around 9pm, when some houses were raided by the suspected robbers numbering about 15. Some of the residents, who gave account of the incident, said no fewer than three houses had already been raided by the robbers around Iboko community before other residents trooped out to foil the operation. “The COVID-19 lockdown has turned to something else in this area. Imagine if we had not come out, these people would have penetrated this community easily and robbed the people as they liked. I heard about their operation when a friend came to inform me and we decided to call other boys and landlords in the area. Some of the landlords with guns immediately started shooting into the air and these people were chased by the mob. Unfortunately for us, they escaped through the river within Iboko community,” a resident, Oludare Omole, recounted. Meanwhile, a resident of Ishashi community, Olalekan Nathaniel, said the Ogun communities were buried in palpable fears when the news of the robbery incident escalated. Narrating his experience, Nathaniel said, “The news of the incident degenerated into serious fears in the people to the extent that the landlords and able men in the community quickly resolved to keeping vigil to keep the community safe. I also learnt that the police had been informed about the development and they are ready to work with the landlords to ensure safety.” Our correspondent within the community noticed there were burnt tyres at various junctions and crossroads in the areas. Ogun State Police Public Relation Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said policemen had been drafted to the affected communities to ensure adequate safety of the residents. However, reports have it that the police in Ogun arrested about 50 robbery suspects that had been terrorising  Ijoko, Sango, Ogba Ayo and other areas two days ago. 