The lawmaker representing Abakaliki South in Ebonyi State House of Assembly, Hon Joseph Ununu, has been accused of smuggling rice from the state’s rice mill in the night to a personal warehouse located in his premises. Caretaker chairman of Abakaliki Rice Mill, Mr. Ogodo Samuel, made this allegation recently at the ricemill complex, saying that the lawmaker, by this act, deprived the state government of the accruing internally generated revenue. According to Ogodo, the lawmaker smuggled a 911 trailer load of the rice, which contained over 300 bags from the rice mill in different types of bags from the approved ones used by the state government. The accused lawmaker was the chairman of the rice mill before his election into the Ebonyi assembly. He had had some disagreements with the incumbent chairman of the rice mill, which took the intervention of the state legislatures to settle. Confirming the matter, the state Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Loveth Odah, said the 911 lorry load of rice found in the residence of the lawmaker is now in police custody. He disclosed that despite the fact that investigation wass still ongoing, the command had found the owner of the allegedly smuggled rice, who showed evidence of payment of government IGR commensurate with the said quantity of rice. The said owner of the lorry load of rice, Mr Obinna Irem, who resides in Lagos and claimed to be a customer to the rice mill, exonerated the lawmaker, saying he took the rice consignment to the lawmaker’s house on his wife’s consent. He explained that the bags of rice he packed at the lawmaker’s residence were the ones he brought from other rice mills in the state, adding that was why they were seen in different types of bags other than the ones approved by state government. He expressed regret the confiscation of his goods, saying it was an infringement on his rights. Irem explained further that the loading of the rice was done in the night due to heavy downpour earlier that day. But another buyer from Ugwulangwu, one Mr. Ifeanyichukwu Ifere, who supplies rice in large quality to Ogun State and whose consignment was part of the ones found in the lawmaker’s warehouse, said he had yet to pay any IGR because he left the rice at the destoning section as usual. He wondered how and who took it to the warehouse without his consent. Our correspondent in Abakaliki, however, observed Ifere bringing his rice consignment back to the mill to pay the due IGR to enable him to begin its onward transportation to Ogun State. The accused lawmaker said that he was no longer in rice business and knew nothing about the rice found in his residence, as he was at his farm in the village at time of the incident. 