 … Directs private hospitals to treat all ailments as potential COVID-19 cases The Nigerian Medical Association has raised the alarm that health workers are increasingly testing positive for Coronavirus, not only as a result of their activities at the isolation centres, but by the Nigerian elite who have continued to avoid accredited centres. The NMA said the elite had, instead, opted for private hospitals not accredited for the treatment of COVID-19 cases only to expose the health workers to the dreaded virus. The association said 40 medical doctors besides other healthcare workers had so far tested positive for the raging COVID-19 in Nigeria. In a statement, jointly signed by the President of NMA, Dr. Francis Faduyile, and Secretary General, Dr. Olumuyiwa Odusote, the doctors appealed to Nigerians to help save the lives of healthcare professionals, noting that three doctors and a nurse had so far paid the ultimate price in the course of their duties. According to the statement, none of the health professionals who died contracted the virus at an isolation centre but were infected at private facilities where the patients refused to disclose important medical/travel information. The statement, titled, “As Nigeria hits the 4-Digit COVID-19 Incidence Figure: An Appeal to all Nigerians to help save the lives of Healthcare Professionals”, said, “At the end of today, given the trend of reports of positive COVID-19 cases by the NCDC, the country will definitely hit the 1000th figure. “So far, over 40 doctors and other healthcare workers have tested positive with three doctors and one nurse paying the ultimate price. This very disturbing and unsettling development comes against the unfolding scenario as reported in the media that some VIPs in the society are refusing to report to and be admitted at Isolation and Treatment centres for treatment, rather, prefer to stay at other non-accredited facilities.” It added, “The Association perceives that by continued refusal to adhere to instructions, some citizens have vowed to make healthcare workers very vulnerable to contracting the disease. NMA wishes to re-iterate that none of the infected healthcare workers or those that died contracted the disease at an Isolation and Treatment Centre, but in general public and private health facilities while treating patients many of whom refused to disclose important medical/travel information that would have increased the suspicion and facilitate early diagnosis of COVID-19 infection. “NMA therefore appeals once again to government to expedite action on distributing PPEs to public and private hospitals without delay. We also remind our members all over the federation to consider everybody presenting at the hospital for any ailment as potential COVID-19 patient until proved otherwise. Our lives also matter!” 