…warns South-West security initiative may fail National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, on Wednesday berated critics attacking him for not speaking on the South-West security outfit, Amotekun, accusing them of politicising his silence on the matter. Tinubu described such critics as adversaries. He, however, warned that although Amotekun was as laudable initiative, it required some operational and conceptual modifications, if it did not fail. The APC national leader said in a statement that those goading him to speak on Amotekun were only doing so for their own selfish political reasons and not in the interest of the country. Tinubu, who is rumoured to be nursing a presidential ambition ahead 2023, spoke on Wednesday several days after he was severely criticised for keeping mute on the matter. Afenifere chieftains, Chief Ayo Adebanjo and Senator Femi Okurounmu, had challenged Tinubu to make his views on Amotekun known to his South-West kinsmen rather than keeping sealed lips on the matter. Tinubu, however, reacted that as the national leader of the APC, he could not make statements without circumspection. Nonagenarian Adebanjo had even said that he would not support Tinubu’s 2023 presidential ambition for dithering on the issue of Amotekun. But apparently replying Adebanjo and other critics, Tinubu said in his statement, “Until now, I have deliberately maintained a studied silence regarding Amotekun. Many have tried to goad my swift public reaction. Those who have taken this road did so not because they care about Amotekun or even the people it intends to help protect. They did so knowing this had become a delicate and emotional issue for many. These cynics did so with the adversarial hope that, in haste, I might misspeak or misstep in a manner they could twist to their political advantage. “Such people are possessed of a mercenary aspect that permits them to sacrifice almost anything, even jeopardise the very foundations of our political unity, if they might exact personal gain from the upheaval. “In that they know no nobler purpose than their own appetites, we should feel sorry for them. However, we must not allow our sympathies for their barren condition to persuade us that there is worth in their destructive misconduct. They must be left to the consequences of their own devices. “If truly I am a political leader as I am often described, then I have not the luxury of hasty, ill-conceived utterances.” The APC stalwart, however, also said in his statement that laudable as the Amotekun initiative was, it needed some operational and conceptual modifications for it to succeed. He, therefore, warned that failure of the promoters of the security initiative failed to heed his advice, Amotekun was doomed to fail. According to him, “As I understand it, Amotekun is to be another set of eyes and ears to assist the police. As such, it is but the second generation of Neighbourhood Watch expanded to a regional scale. Conceptually, there is nothing wrong with this. It does not appear to insult the constitution. “However, my position regarding Amotekun is not blind or uncritical; there are several organisational and functional aspects of the proposal that could cause some problems if left unresolved.” He stated that rather that making Amotekun a regional security network, the governors of the six South-West states should have tailored it towards addressing the peculiar security challenges of each of the states. Tinubu said, “Amotekun should have focused on grassroots local organisation at the state level without a regional command hierarchy. The regional approach may undermine efficiency. There is no compelling logic why the same personnel providing security informational assistance in Ado-Ekiti should be under the same functional and operational leadership as those providing assistance in Lekki or Akure. This will not lead to optimal performance. “The regional approach has only limited benefit with regard to the procurement and maintenance of vehicles and communications equipment because this wider approach allows for economies of scale. “The regional approach also helps tackle the growing incidences of interstate criminal activity. Some things need to be corrected before Amotekun becomes operational. If not, it will not live up to expectations. Thus, the current formulation of Amotekun is in need of repair before it takes to the road only to quickly slip into a ditch.” The APC national leader, therefore, lambasted the South-West governors and the Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN), for causing the controversy Amotekun is now embroiled in and overheating the polity. He blamed the governors for failing to consult the AGF when Amotekun was being conceived. He also came down on Malami for condemning Amotekun without first reaching out to the governors to enable the two parties to resolve the matter amicably. Tinubu further stated, “The governors state that they consulted regularly with the police and security agencies. This was the right thing to do. However, their failure to include the office of the Attorney-General in these discussions is the fount of the current public uproar. This was an unfortunate omission the governors should regret and seek to remedy. However, the conceptual merits and positive functional aspects of Amotekun should not be tainted by this procedural defect. “While the Attorney-General is a conscientious public servant, he is also human. Not having been consulted, he was suddenly faced with an unexpected public announcement regarding a matter within his official ambit. He likely feared the failure to consult him meant that federal prerogatives were being encroached. To blame him for this conclusion would be to blame human nature itself. Though his negative reaction was understandable it was also unhelpful. “The Attorney-General acted hastily in rendering a public statement that was more inaccurate than it should have been. Amotekun was never proposed as a ‘defence’ agency; the Attorney-General erred in using this description. The use of uniforms and brightly coloured vehicles may not be the best ideas but they do not render Amotekun a defence agency or paramilitary group any more than a designated school van carrying uniformed students constitutes a paramilitary deployment.” He, however, disclosed that he would soon be meeting with the Ondo State Governor and Chairman, South-West Governors Forum, Rotimi Akeredolu, on smoothing the rough edges concerning the implementation of Amotekun. 