The administration of the United States President Donald Trump has issued new visa rules on Thursday, clamping down on “birth tourism,” the practice by which some pregnant foreign women travel to the US to give birth to win automatic citizenship for their newborns. Starting on Friday, US consular officers overseas will deny visas to applicants whose sole purpose for traveling to the America is to give birth, the State Department said. Bloomberg quoted the US government as saying that the move was aimed at addressing national-security and law-enforcement risks associated with birth tourism and the groups that help arrange the trips. “The birth tourism industry threatens to overburden valuable hospital resources and is rife with criminal activity, as reflected in federal prosecutions,” White House spokeswoman Stephanie Grisham said in a statement. “Closing this glaring immigration loophole will combat these endemic abuses and ultimately protect the United States from the national security risks created by this practice,” she added. The rule allows consular officers to presume that pregnant women are traveling to the US primarily to obtain citizenship for their unborn children if the officers “have reason to believe” they will give birth while in the country. The 24-page rule doesn’t explain how officers should determine whether a woman will give birth during her stay. A pregnant woman can rebut the presumption if, for example, she can show she’s primarily traveling for some other purpose. The example in the rule is a woman traveling “to visit her dying mother” who can show that her due date “overlapped with her mother’s last expected months of life.” Pregnant women who need specialized medical care available in the US, or women from neighboring countries including Mexico who lack adequate medical care near their homes, may also be allowed into the country under the rule. The move is part of a broader range of actions taken by the Trump administration to restrict inflows of immigrants and refugees. The US already bars or limits entry by people from five Muslim-majority nations — Iran, Libya, Somalia, Syria and Yemen. The ban also blocks people from North Korea and some Venezuelan officials. President Donald Trump is considering adding at least seven more countries to the list. The State Department’s new rule targets so-called B non-immigrant visas, which cover temporary travel to the US for business or pleasure. It also seeks to tighten rules on medical tourism by demanding that applicants show they’ll be able to pay for the treatment. Hong Kong Express Airways has already been caught up in concerns over birth tourism. The airline apologised this month after a 25-year-old Japanese citizen said she was forced by Hong Kong Express to take a pregnancy test in November to travel from Hong Kong to Saipan, a US territory, according to NBC News. -Bloomberg 