… Call on Buhari to take rating in good faith Political and financial analysts have thrown their weights behind Transparency International’s poor rating for Nigeria, saying the current government’s fight against corruption is largely perceived as unfair. Their position came on the heels of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission’s statement against the 2019 Corruption Perception Index released by Transparency International. It ranked Nigeria 146 out of 180 countries. Managing Director, Alpha C Investment Company, Dr. Alfred Johnson, said no one would be surprised that Nigeria had been rated poorly by TI, considering the fact that in the past few years, the country had been fighting corruption “politically.” “The Federal Government or the EFCC can not wake up today to fault TI. During the PDP days, they relied on no better rating for corruption than theirs. Are they tackling corruption the way it should be tackled, when everything is upside down, right from the Villa? Let’s be serious for once,” he said. A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, who spoke in confidence with The Point’s correspondent, said though he was a top member of the ruling party, he was aware that “so many things are wrong with our anti-corruption template.” “I would not fault TI on this particular rating. They used the same criteria they have been using all these years. We must learn to accept criticisms in good faith,” he said. The EFCC had described the criteria used by TI to arrive at the rating as bogus, saying the rating was jaundiced and illogical. The EFCC, in a statement by its acting spokesman, Tony Orilade, said, “We insist that the rating is a far cry from the evident strides and achievements so far accomplished by the anti-graft agency in the fight against corruption, particularly under the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari.” According to the agency, the ranking of Nigeria as the second most corrupt country in West Africa is totally unacceptable, and not supported by any empirical data, especially when placed side-by-side with the remarkable achievements of the commission. 