Assassination: Oko Oloyun detected fraud in his office, say police …detectives quiz his staff, two police escorts The police in Oyo State, on Friday, said that the alleged assassination of a trado-medical practitioner, Alhaji Fatai Yusuf, popularly known as ‘Oko Oloyun,’ could be linked to a suspected fraud he earlier detected in his office in Lagos. Yusuf’s convoy was attacked on Thursday along the Igbo-Ora-Eruwa road by gunmen, who shot at them from the forest. He was hit by a bullet, which fatally injured him. He later died from the injuries sustained from the gun shot. But the Oyo State Police Public Relations Officer, Olugbenga Fadeyi, in a statement on Friday on ‘Oko Oloyun’s’ death, hinted at the possibility of a link between a fire incident in his Lagos office, apparently to cover up suspected fraud, and his alleged assassination. According to the statement, “The report of Yusuf’s death was received by the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Igbo-ora that the two-car convoy of the deceased was allegedly ambushed shortly after passing through five different police stop and search teams along Igbo-Ora road by yet-to-be-identified assailants, who fired at the moving vehicles on the road from the thick forest. “The two-man armed escorts of policemen protecting the deceased engaged the assailants, but they managed to escape back into the forest after a single shot had hit the deceased, who died later of his bullet injuries. “An interesting twist to the story was that the deceased had earlier detected an alleged bookkeeping records fraud in his Lagos office, which subsequently allegedly led to the burning of some financial/bookkeeping records. “In addition to other possible motives, a plausible nexus is, therefore, being suspected between the fire incident and the attack on the deceased. “Some of his staff and two police escorts are being questioned by a team of crack detectives from the homicide section of State Criminal Investigation Department, Iyaganku, Ibadan, with a view of finding and apprehending the fleeing suspects, who committed the heinous act.” The PPRO added that the police in the state had been working with other police formations and units to ensure compliance with the directive of the Inspector-General of Police, Muhammed Adamu, to unravel Yusuf’s killers. He further said the state Commissioner of Police, Shina Olukolu, had vowed that the suspected killers of the trado-medical expert would be brought to book within a short time. The police spokesman, however, said the state police boss appealed to members of the public with credible information on the alleged assassination of Yusuf to pass to the police to assist them in apprehending the culprits.  