The immediate past governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, has declared support for  the Southwest Security operation code-named: Amotekun. Recall that the six governors of the South-West states recently launched  the regional security outfit in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, to combat insecurity and other crimes, including kidnapping, armed robbery and attacks on travelers on the highways by suspected Fulani herdsmen and bandits. Addressing journalists at the Ibara Correctional home as part of activities to mark his 62nd birthday, Amosun threw his weight behind the regional security network, saying that he’ll remain at the fore front of those supporting the operation. The senator, who is currently representing Ogun Central Senatorial District in the National Assembly, maintained that he was ready to always support anything that would improve the security architecture of the nation, even at the Senate. “My position is anything that will support and improve our security apparatus. Of course, you will see me supporting it. So, to that extent, of course, you know my position,” he said. The former governor stated that he had often supported any bill on security at the Senate, noting that he joined his fellow lawmakers in the introduction of the Southwest Commission because it had prominent measures on security. “Even in the Senate, if you see us discussing about security, you will see me in the forefront. Even the South-West Commission that I with my colleagues introduced; it has prominent measures on security and several other issues,” he added. Amosun, however, promised to pay the fines imposed on inmates who remained at the correctional home due to their inability to pay such fines. He lamented the plight of those on awaiting trial, who had spent some years at the home without being sentenced, promising that he would present their matter at the Senate for speedy dispensation of justice. The ex-governor, who donated food stuffs, including, vegetable oil, noodles, rice and generator to the home, however, charged the inmates to always pray to God and never to go back to the crime that brought them to the home after their release. He said, “I want to believe that majority of those that are here did one thing or other that was not right; so my advice to all is that if you leave this place, don’t go back to those things that brought you here. “I have discussed with the controller that those ones that have been sentenced, there are two or three categories that we can assist. All of those awaiting trial, what we will do is that when I get back to Abuja, we’ll see how we can fasttrack and improve on the speedy dispensation of justice. “Those that have sentences that have the option of fine and cannot pay their fines, I can readily tell you we will sort it out. I will give you one vehicle to take you to court and that will serve as a catalyst for  dispensation of justice. “Finally, because today is a day of celebration, I will give some foods stuff, which we brought. I am giving you here, I am giving in Ijebu-Ode, in Ilaro, Sagamu. So, we are giving all, but most importantly is to say that God help me if I am out of this place.” 