The Presidency on Friday said sacking the heads of the country’s security agencies wont’ bring an end to insurgency by the Boko Haram group. It was reacting to the claim by the Christian Association of Nigeria that the Federal Government should reconstitute the leadership of the Nigeria’s security forces to strengthen the crusade against terrorism and insurgency. CAN President, Rev. Samson Ayokunle, had in his reaction on Thursday to the beheading of CAN Chairman in Michika Local Government Area of Adamawa State, Rev Lawan Andimi, by Boko Haram insurgents said that the Christian body demanded an overhaul of the security council with a view to bringing in new heads of all the security agencies and the para-military organisations, “which no religion or part of the country will dominate.” But Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, argued in a statement on Friday that a different leadership of the nation’s security forces might not guarantee an end to insurgency in the country, adding that no religion or part of the country dominates the leadership of the security forces. He said, “Are you saying under a different leadership of our security forces, insurgency will vanish after they wave their fingers? Why mix the wheat and chaff together? In the leadership of the security forces as we have it now, is the position of Chief of Defence Staff not held by General Abayomi Olonisakin, who is also a pastor? Is he not a member of CAN? Is the Chief of Naval Staff, Ibok Ekwe-Ibas, not a Christian, and under the banner of CAN?” “Listening to the organisation, you would think not even half a Christian is in the leadership of the security forces. “If the leadership of the security forces would be changed, it is a sitting President that has the prerogative. It will not happen when CAN begins to make such demand.” Adesina further said, “The insecurity in the country is not about any religion. It is pure evil, from the pit of hell”. “So, let the Church be fully involved in supplication for divine intervention in the country, rather than playing subtle politics and unwittingly generating hate in the land.” 