…say ‘you lack capacity to decide Nigeria’s next president’
. Back Southwest govs on new security outfit   The umbrella body of Northern youth groups, Arewa Youth Consultative Forum, at the weekend, lambasted the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association, saying it lacks the capacity to decide on the next President of Nigeria.
The AYCF has also backed the formation of the Western Nigeria Security Network codenamed Operation Amotekun, the regional security outfit set up by the governors of the six Southwest states of Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Ekiti and Ondo recently to enhance the security of the region in collaboration with the Federal security apparatuses. It was launched in Ibadan on January 9 this year.
Its launch has since been mired in controversies with the opposition to the new Southwest security initiative coming mainly from groups and personalities from the Northern part of the country.
The AYCF, however, said that the brouhaha over Amotekun was just an attempt by some people to cry wolf where none existed and kicked against the declaration that the Southwest security arrangement was illegal by the Federal Government.
It stressed that it was not the business of MACBAN if the governors and people of the Southwest decided to set up a security network to protect themselves.
The foremost Northern youth group noted that the fate of the country was beyond the purview of MACBAN, wondering whether the issue of Nigeria’s next president had become so pedestrian that a group of cattle rearers would be allowed to determine who should hold the reins of power in the country in 2023.
AYCF National President, Alhaji Shettima Yerima, spoke against the backdrop of the recent statement by MACBAN that for the Southwest to produce Nigeria’s next president, the governors of the six states in the geo-political zone must disband Amotekun, their newly launched security network and jettison the idea of a regional security network.
Miyetti Allah had also warned that the insistence of the governors and people of the region to operate Amotekun might jeopardise the chances of the Southwest in 2023.
Yerima said in an exclusive interview with The Point that Miyetti Allah had overreached and overrated itself by arrogating to itself powers far beyond its capacity and which it could never exercise.
He wondered where Miyetti Allah got the idea that power would be handed to the Southwest in 2023, saying, “Was there any arrangement that power would be handed over to the Southwest? Was the power within the reach of Miyetti Allah? Who are they to make such a pronouncement?
“Let us be very clear, this is democracy. Does Miyetti Allah have the power to decide who gets power and who does not?  Who are they? Does that mean the issue of Presidency in the country now has become so low that Miyetti Allah will now decide? So, they want to come out of their ranches to decide the fate of the country?  Please, let us stop reasoning like this. Let us talk about something better. However, Amotekun issue is a different issue; it has nothing to do with who has the power, it is not their issue.”
The AYCF president, however, said the circumstances surrounding the creation of Amotekun justified the demand for community policing, a key ingredient of the agitation for the restructuring of Nigeria.
He said community policing would complement the security provided by the Federal policing system to ensure adequate security all over the country.
Yerima commended the governors of the Southwest state for the initiative, saying that rather than politicising the Amotekun issue, Nigerians should try to have a proper understanding of the new security system.
He said that the governors meant well by setting up the security network, but urged them to put in place the necessary legal framework to give Amotekun the necessary legal backing.
The AYCF president said, “I am an advocate of restructuring and an advocate of community policing. So, as long as I am concerned about this issue of Amotekun, I am in support of community policing. But you know that there is a language they use in politics, especially when they want to over-politicise an issue. I do not think it is wrong for anybody to think and come up with a modality on how to protect their people as long as the motive is not negative. I am sure these people meant well because I do not think they meant something harmful to the country.
“So, I think what they need to do is to find a way to enact some law that helps the programme to be effective within their states and legalise it. The governors are directly responsible for the security of their people within the states. So, I have not seen any reason the Federal Government would move against what they have done. For me, community policing is welcome and this is inclusive in the restructuring we are clamouring for.
“We cannot over-burden the center; programmes like community policing, state policing should be encouraged. You don’t expect everything to be in Abuja. Community policing must be encouraged so that people from various communities will take part in ensuring adequate security because they know their community well. But when you bring Chukwuma to a community in Kano as the DPO and you want him to ensure that criminals are nabbed, certainly you are just making a mistake because he won’t perform, because he is not familiar with the terrain. Secondly, he will face language barrier. But when you bring in someone within the community to complement the efforts of the Federal police, success will be recorded.
“This Amotekun issue is just an issue of adequate understanding that people need to have. This is done in every other part of the world. For me, people are just making something out of nothing. The governors should just come up with their modus operandi and let them start their work. Nobody can assume that Amotekun supersedes the Federal Police. Even in America, we have state police, sheriffs who work to complement the Federal Police. So, it’s not a new thing. It’s just that when people want to politicise something, they make it look as if it’s a big deal.” 