…says action is subversion of rule of law The Peoples Democratic Party has condemned Thursday’s demolition of a property belonging to the late strongman of Kwara politics, Dr. Olusola Saraki by the state government. The property called ‘Ile Arugbo’ belonged to the father of former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki. The PDP in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, described the action of the Kwara State Government as baseless. The statement reads, “The PDP dismisses the reasons being spewed by the APC administration for this New Year’s dastard act as baseless, false and incongruous, as they fail to add up, to justify the ferocious invasion, harassment of citizens and demolition of the said property. “The demolition is a complete subversion of rule of law as the matter is already in court.  The APC-led Kwara State government could not wait for the outcome of the court process apparently because it knows that it is pursuing an illegal agenda. “Nigerians know how the APC and its government have been hounding, harassing and dragging Senator Saraki around over trumped-up charges, for daring to be among compatriots at the forefront of the quest to rescue our nation from misrule and strangleholds of the APC and its cabal.” The party argued that the timing of the demolition before dawn was a direct indication that the state government was allegedly carrying out an unwholesome act. The PDP added, “Nigerians should note that the demolition of property, genuinely belonging to opposition leaders and other Nigerians perceived to be opposed to APC’s oppressive administration, has become a policy of the APC and its government in their bid to subjugate Nigerians and exclusively appropriate our common patrimony for their selfish purposes. “Nigerians have not forgotten how APC leaders, including those at the Presidency, applauded whenever property belonging to perceived political opponents was unjustly and viciously pulled down in APC-controlled states and even in Abuja.” 