…says institution will maintain zero tolerance for cultism Authorities of the De Potter College of Health Technology, Ijebu Ode, Ogun State, have warned its students to shun all forms of vices, vowing to maintain its zero tolerance for cultism. The Provost/Chief Executive Officer of the institution, Adeware OG, stated this during the matriculation ceremony for its new students for the 2019/2020 academic session. He enjoined the students to eschew all acts that could mar their future while in the school. According to him, “Let me seize this opportunity to enjoin you to shun all forms of social vices such as cultism, sexual misbehavior, indecent dressing, examination malpractices, thuggery, fraudulent acts and other nefarious activities which could mar your bright future.” Adeware advised them to read and digest the contents of the institution’s handbook to thoroughly acquaint themselves with the rules and regulations guiding their conduct as students of the College. He said, “You need to continually remember that the distance between today’s ceremony and convocation ceremony is quite wide and it is important that the journey ends successfully. For this to happen, you need to be regular in attendance at lectures, carrying out all your assignments, shunning deviant behaviours and other vices that can expose you and others to danger. “This College has zero tolerance for cultism, any form of hooliganism and sexual indiscipline. I am aware that you had an orientation programme and you were informed of the co-curricula activities available on the campus, we will try to improve on them as time goes by. Please, avail yourself with those opportunities, not only to excel in learning, but possibly to become our sport ambassadors. Please, try to uphold the ideals of the college.” He assured them that security on the campus had been fortified while various construction works were ongoing to make the institution conducive to learning, adding that few weeks ago, due to the efforts of the Governing Board, management and staff, the college was adjudged the best college of health technology in Ogun State in 2019. The provost/CEO also disclosed on the occasion that the College was recently accredited by the Community Health Practitioners Board of Nigeria and the West African Health Examination Board, adding that efforts were being made to secure accreditation for the college’s Medical Laboratory Technician and Pharmacy Technician Programmes. He also said that the institution had embarked on the construction of a 40-room hostel accommodation within its campus, with 20 of the rooms and toilets completed, purchase of a bus for conveying staff and students, construction of additional classrooms and offices as well as construction of shops on campus to ease students’ academic and welfare needs. Adeware stressed the commitment of the institution’s management to the welfare of the students, assuring them that efforts would continue to be made to improve on the amenities in the hostels and provide facilities for their extra-curricula activities. He, however, enjoined the students to make the best use of the facilities and preserve them for future generation of students. The Deputy Provost of the College, Mrs. Kujore AA, in her welcome address said the school remained the best in the country, advising the students to shun vices that could deny them the opportunity of being awarded the institution’s “excellent certificate” at the end of their course of studies. Chairman of the institution’s Governing Board, Mr. C.O Onanuga congratulated the matriculating students, saying they had chosen the right school because the college remained a quality institution accredited by the various professional bodies. The Olokine of Ojowo, Oba Abdulrasheed Ababyomi Banjo, lauded the management of the College for their achievements, enjoining well-meaning members of the community to come to its aid. Oba Banjo assured the management of the College of the support of traditional rulers in the area. 