 TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO TRADERS and consumers have said they are feeling the pinch of the high cost of major food items across markets. They feared the development might affect the fun usually associated with Christmas and New Year celebrations this year. Those who spoke with The Point said the Federal and State Governments had failed the masses. Some also attributed the high costs of food items to the COVID-19 pandemic and #EndSARS protests. When our correspondent visited popular markets in Osogbo, Osun State, to check prices of food items, it was discovered that market prices had skyrocketed when compared to what they used to be. The market prices of food items, including beans, tin tomatoes, fresh tomatoes and pepper, groundnut oil/palm oil, live chickens (broiler, old layers), frozen chicken/turkey, garri, Semovita, yam, wheat, meat (goat, cow, ram), among others, have risen. But the price of rice is said to have reduced. It was sold for over a thousand naira but, according to a trader at Alekunwodo Market in Osogbo, Mrs Bola Adewale, it now goes for N800/850 per ‘congo’ measurement. When asked about other food items, Adewale who sells rice, beans and semovita, said a ‘congo’ of beans, which was sold for N250/300, now goes for N400/N500 (white and red respectively), while semovita is now being sold at N1,900 (5kg), as against N1,700 before the inflation. Speaking with another food items’ vendor, Mopelola Abiola, at same market, she disclosed that a satchet of tomatoes now goes for N150, fresh tomatoes and pepper, between N50 and N200; live chickens, between N5,000 and N7,000; tubers of yam, between N1,200 and N3,000; among others. Abiola argued that the price variation was wide and noted that the price differences were necessitated by the economic recession and bad governance in the country. The traders groaned that patronage had reduced because their customers had been complaining of the continued price increase. Another market vendor at Orisunbare market in Osogbo, Samson Akande, owner of Success Stores, said he had been experiencing low patronage. He sells Christmas packs. “Last year, business was better; people patronised us but this year, prices have gone up because we now pay more for transportation of our goods,” he said. Mrs. Carolein Femi, who sells children wares, said her business had been successful before the COVID-19 pandemic and #EndSARS protest. She said the protesters caused major problems that affected their businesses. “Customers that buy more than two or three clothes and shoes, hardly purchase one now. Even when you call them, they would tell you it is better to buy and sew fabrics,” she said. She disclosed that clothes that were sold at N3,500 now went for N7000. Meanwhile, the mood of the traders was not different from that of the people of Osun State as they said bleak Christmas and New year celebrations awaited them. A resident of Osogbo, Mr Gabriel Okoh, blamed the Federal Government for failing to prioritise the nation’s economy. Okoh said, “This is the worst time to be a family man. Each time my wife prepares to go to market, my heart skips because I would have to cough up.close to N10,000 for her to get food items. “Things are very hard and our government is not doing anything about it. This is worrisome because the wages and salaries are nothing to write home about. In fact, I am still wondering how people would cope in this forthcoming Christmas and New Year.” Also speaking, another resident, Mrs Yemisi Ponle, a trader, said her family would have to make do with whatever that was available to celebrate Christmas and New Year. While advising other families to plan their budget according to their means, she said “it is necessary for people to understand that there is hardship in Nigeria and the moment they realise this, the better. Christmas and New year celebrations should not push anyone to live on credit. Yes, our government has failed but we need to be realistic.”  