 BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE SOME indigenes of Kogi State have berated Governor Yahaya Bello over his comment on the use of thugs by politicians. Some of the indigenes, who spoke in separate interviews with THE POINT on Wednesday, described Bello as the “grandmaster” of politicians sponsoring thuggery. According to them, Nigerian politicians have continued to take the electorate as fools, believing that they would always believe everything they say. A lawyer, who is an indigene of Kogi State, Festus Alidu, said it was surprising that his Governor, who had never hidden his support for thuggery, would be the one saying this on national television. “This is laughable. What do these people take us for? Morons? Nigeria is in dire need of a revolution. All these liars and clowns feeding fat on public money and doing nothing but compounding the people’s woes, should be sent packing. They are even adding salt on our injury,” he claimed. The Kogi Governor had said on Wednesday that Nigeria would be a safe place to live in when politicians stop using thugs during elections. “When politicians begin to stop the use of thugs, touts or some group of criminals, that is when we will begin to have safety and security in our land,” Bello, who spoke on Channels Television’s Sunrise programme, said. According to him, thugs who are used and dumped by politicians during elections turn into hydra-headed monsters and criminal elements. On how he reformed the political atmosphere in his state, Bello said, “When I came on board, I inherited a state that was largely divided along several lines. For you to aspire to be anything politically in Kogi State then, you must have what we call ‘boys’ or thugs or touts and then use it to intimidate people during political dispensations. “Once the political exercise is over, the so-called boys or thugs or foot soldiers would be abandoned and then left to themselves and by that, they breed into something else or a hydra-headed monster, that you will not be able to curb at the end of the day.” He said he refused to play “that kind of dangerous or unnecessary politics” when he came on board. “My ascension to office is known to everybody in the world. I chose my path immediately and decided to deal with criminals, irrespective of political affiliations, by using the laws passed by the Kogi State House of Assembly and the existing security architecture,” Governor Bello stressed. However, contrary to the Governor’s claim that he won the November 16, 2019 Governorship Poll without the use of thugs, another Kogi indigene, a medical doctor, who asked not to be named, owing to the sensitivity of the matter, said the governor “is a pathological liar.” “I guess the Governor has been taken over by delusion. He is the grandmaster of thugs. He should refrain from further insulting the very intelligent people of Kogi State. They should rather concentrate on making the best of what we have at hand now. He should choose other things to comment on, not what everyone sees clearly,” the Yagba West born medical practitioner told THE POINT. Adesina Adeboye, a rights activist, also from Kogi State, alleged that Bello’s “ta-ta-ta-ta” threats during campaigns meant nothing but the fact that the opposition should get ready for gun battle. “Is it the Police that will engage the people in a gun battle? Who does not know that he is talking about his ‘boys?’ There is nothing we will not hear from these leaders in Nigeria. Bello, saying Nigeria will be safe when politicians stop using thugs? I laugh in Chinese,” he said.  