 AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI AN octogenarian, native of Amaeta Mgbom Okposi Community in Ohaozara Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, Mrs Mary Okorie-Anioke, has been beaten black and blue, tied, hands and feet; and thrown into the bush for allegedly shooting a boy in his sister’s dream. The boy in question subsequently died three days after the said dream, it was learnt. Narrating her ordeal to The Point in Abakaliki, the 80-year-old widow and mother of 13 children, said the battle against her in the extended polygamous family started shortly after the mysterious deaths of many of her children. According to her, one Mr Nwani Ezeh, the eldest male in the entire family, had denied her all her landed property inheritance in the family and also allegedly attacked her at the slightest provocation. She said the last straw was when one of their distant relatives, a divorcee she identified as Esther, said she had a dream where she (Octogenarian) alledegly shot her younger brother, Oluchukwu Okoro, to death. As funny as it might sound, from that Tuesday, when Esther had the dream, a dark painful spot reportedly appeared on the deceased’s neck region, which resulted in his mysterious death on Friday, same week. She reported that, following Oluchukwu’s death, Nwani Ezeh and Esther hired many youths from both far and near communities, who invaded their compound against the orders of the village Chairman, Mr John Ngwu. The widow said she was beaten mercilessly after which she went into a coma. The hired youths also tied her hands and feet and threw her into the bush, she narrated. Her eight-bedroom apartment was destroyed and all her belongings set ablaze, among others, she said. The octogenarian said she requested to be made to take an oath to prove her innocence as obtainable in their traditional setting despite the fact that she was a Christian but her attackers refused. The recovering widow lamented that as if that was not enough, the defendants (Nwani Ezeh and accomplices) went to families where she kept some of her livestock, retrieved and made away with them, leaving her without anything except the old torn wrapper and blouse she was wearing. She appealed for intervention of Governor David Umahi, National Human Rights Commission, Nigerian Bar Association, International Federation of Women Lawyers, philanthropists, corporate bodies and good spirited individuals, in the matter so that she could get justice. The widow’s eldest surviving daughter, Ogbonne Okorie Anioke, said on hearing the rumour, she came home and advised Nwani Ezeh to deposit the body of the boy for autopsy and proper investigations through traditional and religious means to avoid reccurrence as she strongly believed her mother was innocent. She however said her advice was ignored and that the boy was buried a week after on the landed inheritance of her mother (Mary Okorie Anioke). She said she later took her mother to town for adequate medical care, which she noted was the most important thing at the time. The octogenarian’s daughter has, however, reported the matter to the Ebonyi State Family Law Center, Abakaliki. Hearing has yet to commence, following constant absence of the defendants. Meanwhile, efforts to reach the defendants for reaction were not successful as of the time of filing this report.  