 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI A former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Pius Anyim, has called for constitutional rotation of presidency in Nigeria. Anyim made the call while delivering a lecture at the 6th World Igbo Summit at the Gregory University, Uturu, Abia State, titled, “Identifying The Political Interest Of The Igbos Of The South-East Geo-Political Zone In Nigeria And Strategies For Its Actualisation”. Anyim, an ex-Senate President, recommended that Igbo professionals, politicians, activists, businessmen, youths, and students, among others, should constructively and creatively engage their counterparts from other parts of the country to engender confidence and create opportunity for making the necessary compromises to secure their support and votes. He advised all Igbo sons and daughters across political parties to strive to ensure the “rotation of Presidency” clause in their party constitutions as a requirement for registration. Anyim encouraged those clamouring for restructuring of the country and Igbo presidency to work harder to secure national consensus, saying this was the right time. To that effect, he expressed the urgent need for civic and voter education to increase voter turnout in favour of the Igbos. He said, “It a prerequisite for political parties to have explicit provisions on rotation of the Presidency in their constitutions before registration. The PDP was halfway to it by agreeing to a North-South rotation instead of a zone-to-zone rotation. “Given the above, the following strategies are recommended:
– All Igbo sons and daughters in any political party should strive to ensure “rotation of Presidency” clause in their party constitutions.
– All Igbos in the National Assembly should seek collaboration with members from other zones to amend the Electoral Act to accommodate a provision that compels INEC to ensure rotation clause in political parties constitutions as a requirement for registration. “It is my opinion that the Igbo of the South-East geo-political zone is in continuous search of a system, or if you like, a polity that guarantees and secures his social, political and economic interest based on equality of citizenship, equity and justice. “I make bold to say that the Igbos of the South-East geo-political zone can find this in Nigeria. The journey to building an equitable society is usually challenging and rough, but many nations have arrived safely from this journey. It is, therefore, my position that those who posit restructuring have a point but should work harder to secure national consensus to make it possible.” He advised those advocating for President of Nigeria of the South-East extraction to diligently and boldly pursue it, saying the time had come, “and the time is now.” The former SGF said, “It is, therefore, my considered view that the present-day political interest of the Igbos of the South-East geo-political zone is to attain the Presidency of Nigeria come 2023. “I recommend that in our engagement with other zones and peoples, our tone must reflect negotiation, not antagonism. It must be one of friendship and not disdain or disrespect. It must show our willingness to enter into an enduring and lasting relationship for long-term interest of all the parties. “I make bold to say that producing a President of Nigeria of South-East extraction demands a lot of work from every segment of the Igbo nation. I therefore use this platform to call on all and sundry to rise to the occasion. The task is achievable if approached collectively and adequately. Most importantly, to strengthen the capacity of the Igbos of the South-East geo-political zone to negotiate and ultimately win the Presidency, there is an urgent need for civic and voter education to increase voter turnout. “The South-East is currently the zone with the least voter turnout, and this should change. Institutions like the World Igbo Summit should actively promote voter education and civic engagement. Moreso, every Igbo organisation and association should arise and promote voter education and civic engagement. I call on each and everyone of us to stand to be counted.”  