 TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO THE Department of State Security in Osun State has arraigned the leader of the second wave of the EndSARS protest in the state, Adebisi Emmanuel Oluwaseun, before an Osogbo Magistrate’s court over alleged impersonation. Oluwaseun, aged 40, was accused of claiming to be a Captain in the Nigerian military. DSS accused Oluwaseun of being a military impostor by allegedly bearing “Captain Adebisi Emmanuel” and being in possession of military apparels. DSS prosecutor, Ben Nweke, told the court that Oluwaseun made a false attestation in a document entitled: “Memorandum of Understanding”, with reference number: Pcc/os/2020/6/2/7 through witnessing and signing in as “Captain Adebisi Emmanuel”. Nweke added that the #EndSARS movement leader committed felony by holding himself out with fraudulent intent to officers of the Osun State Office of the Public Complaint Commission (Nigeria Ombudsman) by claiming that he serves in the Armed Forces of Nigeria. He alleged further that Oluwaseun dressed and appeared in the garb of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, on June 19, 2020 in Osogbo, within the jurisdiction of the court. The prosecutor further argued that the accused, in his residence located at the Ile-Idande Area, Ayekale Osogbo, on December 9, 2020, was also found in possession of accoutrements of the Armed Forces of Nigeria. The DSS alleged that the offence allegedly commited by Oluwaseun was contrary and punishable under Section 467, 484, 109 and 428 of the criminal code Cap 34 Vol.2, Law of Osun State of Nigeria, 2002. Oluwaseun pleaded not guilty to the four-count charge slammed against him. Defence counsel, Barrister A.C Olaniyi, urged the court to grant Oluwaseun bail and assured the court that he would provide reliable sureties. But the Magistrate ordered that the accused to be remanded at the Ilesa Correctional Centre. Omisade asked the defence counsel to approach the court with a formal bail application. He adjourned the matter till December 21, 2020.  