 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A 62-year-old community leader of Ogbaagba in Ayedaade Local Government Area of Osun State, Micheal Oyelowo Oladeji, has been arraigned before an Osogbo Magistrate’s Court on Monday for allegedly impersonating the Community traditional ruler (Baale), Ekanade Ajani Amusan. Oyelowo, who was charged with a four-count charge bordering on false representation, false sworn affidavit, and a misdemeanour to cause a breach of peace, pleaded not guilty to the charges slammed against him. The police prosecutor, Inspector Lamidi Rasaq, alleged that the accused did parade himself as the Baale of Ogbaagba and also approached the court to swear a false affidavit to that effect. Rasaq informed the court that the accused person had, between the month of November 2005 till date at Ogbaga via Gbongan in the Gbongan Magisterial District sitting at Osogbo, falsely presented himself to be Baale of Ogbaagba. “On the 17th of March, 2010 at the High Court of Justice Registry Ikire in the aforementioned Magisterial District, the accused did swear a false affidavit in Suit No. ARE/25/2007 especially in paragraph 2 and 7 of the same affidavit that you are the present Baale of Ogbaga via Gbongan under Ayedade Local Government which you knew to be false,” the charge sheet presented in court reads partly. It was further disclosed that the accused and others now at large, between the month of January 2006 and 2019, did conspire among themselves to commit misdemeanour likely to cause a breach of the peace. Oyelowo and others were also accused of inciting people against Baale Ekanade Ajani Amusan, calling him an illegal and fake Baale of Ogbaagba. According to the police, the offences contravened and are punishable under Sections 484, 117, 118, 517, and 249 (D) of the Criminal Code Cap 34 Vol. II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria 2002. Defence Counsel, J. A Adeboye, applied for the bail of his client in the most liberal terms, adding that the accused was “a community leader and won’t jump bail.” In a swift reaction, the prosecutor opposed the bail on the basis that “since the arraignment of the accused person, he has never allowed peace to reign in the community by parading himself as the Baale of Ogbaagba also threatening to kill Baale Ekanade Amusan.” The presiding Magistrate O. A. Olayade granted the bail application of N500, 000 and two sureties in like sum. She, thereafter, adjourned the matter till January 28th, 2021 for hearing.  