 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE THE Peoples Democratic Party has told the Independent National Electoral Commission to officially deregister the ruling All Progressives Congress and recall its certificate of registration, “given that it no longer has operational structures as required by law.” The party was reacting to Tuesday’s dissolution of the nationwide structures of the APC by the party’s National Executive Committee. National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, spoke in a statement titled, “PDP Congratulates Nigerians as APC, Their Tormentor, Finally Fizzles”. He said the ruling party exited itself from the “nation’s political firmament”, having been overburdened by what he described as the weight of failure and humongous corruption, among others. “The Peoples Democratic Party congratulates Nigerians across the country, as their tormentor for five years, the All Progressives Congress, has finally dissolved out of our political firmament,” the statement said. “With this exit, December 8, 2020 has gone into the history of our nation as liberation day, especially given the spontaneous jubilation by Nigerians over this step towards political oblivion by a political party that has brought so much pain on them,” the party added. It said, “Now that the APC has become defunct, the PDP invites the Independent National Electoral Commission to officially deregister the APC and recall its certificate of registration, given that it no longer has operational structures as required by law. “In the same vein, INEC should immediately declare the seat of all lawmakers elected on the platform of APC at the federal and state levels as vacant and commence the process of bye-election to fill the seats, as required by law. “Furthermore, government agencies, civil society organizations, as well as the international community, should immediately gazette the APC as a defunct political organization in our country. “Nevertheless, the PDP invites all leaders of the fizzled APC to get ready to answer Nigerians for their misdeeds, and not to think they can get away with their atrocities by forming or joining another political party.”  