 BY ADE ADEMAKIN NATIONAL Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, visited Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno State in Maiduguri, on Monday night over the killing of 43 rice farmers in the state some days ago. While sympathising with Zulum over the sad loss, the APC leader noted that the insurgency was no longer a conventional warfare, saying specifically that to confront the menace, there was a need for a change of strategy. “I want His Excellency and members of the state executive to see this visit not as condolence only, not a sympathy visit only, but as solidarity and commitment that we must defeat all evildoers,” the former Governor of Lagos State said. He noted that the terrorists were engaging in acts of wickedness under the guise of religion, saying no meaningful development could take place when there was insurgency. Tinubu said, “We have been on this for some time; we have seen the reaction of the Federal Government; we have seen the reaction of the Armed Forces. This is no longer conventional warfare; this is more tactical, more crude. “In such a situation, what we do is to replan our strategy. We have seen the Governor’s life has been attacked on more than one occasion in an effort to eliminate him but Allah is mighty. He has protected and will continue to protect you.” He added, “We saw people who have endured so much agony, denial, brutality decided to run to their farms to develop means of livelihood, not only for themselves, but for all of us. Aat the end, they were slaughtered. “That’s not religion, it is not in our religion (Islam), it is not in Christianity either, it is an act of wickedness. I want His Excellency and members of the state executive to see this visit not as condolence only, not a sympathy only, but as solidarity and commitment that we must defeat all evildoers.” Commending Zulum, Tinubu said, “He is a man of courage, brilliance, talented plus great character. It’s a different thing for one to be talented, and another to have character. Zulum is a man who is talented combined with great character. “He courageously takes the responsibility of governance without looking back.” On ways to tackle the menace, he said, “We have to remove these unemployed youths from the streets, from being available for evildoers for recruitment. Don’t tell me they are illiterates. Anybody that can operate Keke Napep and do little repairs, anybody that can hold guns, dismantle guns and service it, is no more an illiterate.”  