 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A 34 year-old man, Paul Oguntayo, was on Monday remanded by a Magistrate’s Court sitting in Osogbo, Osun State, for allegedly defrauding admission seekers to the tune of N585,000. The accused person was said to have committed the offence sometimes in the month of October, 2019 at Testing Ground Area, Osogbo. Police prosecutor, Inspector Adeoye Kayode, told the court that the accused person scammed the parents of two girls who were seeking admission into the School of Nursing. Kayode added that after Oguntayo collected over N1million from these parents, he failed to secure admission for their daughters. According to the prosecution, Oguntayo fraudulently and unlawfully obtained the sum of Two Hundred and Ninety Five Thousand Naira (N295,000:00) from one Pastor Olaniyi Oladipupo  with pretence of securing admission into the School of Nursing Osogbo for his daughter, Esther Oladipupo. He furthered alleged that the accused person also did fraudulently and unlawfully obtain the sum of Two Hundred and Ninety Thousand Naira (N290,000:00) from one Abiola Adeniran with pretence of securing admission into the School of Nursing Osogbo for his daughter, Janet Adeniran. Kayode said that the offence committed contravened Section 419 and 380 and was punishable under Section 390(9) of the  Criminal Code Cap 34 Vol ll, Law of Osun State 2002. However, the accused person pleaded not guilty to the four-count charge slammed against him. Defence Counsel, D.B Alakiti, applied for the bail of the accused person in most liberal term. But prosecutor opposed the bail application made by the counsel on the ground that the accused was given adminstrative bail at the police station on December 21, 2019 and was told to report back on December 23, 2019 but he failed. He added that the surety of the accused was tracked and arrested before he was apprehended. In her ruling, Magistrate Modupe Awodele ordered the remand of the accused person in Ilesa correctional facility. She, thereafter, adjourned the matter till January 18, 2021 for hearing.  