 AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI THE Inspector General Police, Mohammed Adamu, has advised police officers in Ebonyi State to go back to their duty posts to ensure security of lives and property in the state. He gave the directive just as he empowered them to use fire arms when their lives are in danger. The IGP gave the directive at the Command Headquarters, Abakaliki, during a one-day working visit to Ebonyi State. He said police officers were a special breed of Nigerians charged with the responsibility of protecting lives and properties of citizens of the country. Adamu, who was not pleased with the number of deaths involving policemen and the destruction of police stations during the last #EndSARS protest, stressed that such violent protests would never be allowed to happen again in the country. He directed men and officers of the Nigerian Police to use maximum force to suppress any form of violent protests, following laid down rules of engagement. He called on police officers not be demoralised following the negative events around the #EndSARS protests, noting that the Police High Command had put modalities in place to ensure improvement in the welfare of all serving and retired officers. He said, “When your life is in danger, you use your fire arm. You are not meant to kill or to maim. Shoot the suspect on the leg, not on the heart. “#EndSARS protests created a lot of problems for the Nigerian Police and the country. This protest came as a result of what many people have been yearning for. The #EndSARS started as a result of fake news provided by the social media. “A lot of reforms have been put in place. The #EndSARS protest started from Delta, to Lagos and other parts of the country. The motive behind the protest was not #EndSARS but attack on government. Police provided them cover. Their aim was not peaceful protest as it turned violent a few days after. “The reason was to attack the police that can protect the citizens and corporate offices in the country. “Police has the capability to prevent loss of lives. We are meant to protect and not to destroy lives. It was through maximum restraint we saved the country from anarchy. We proved that during the protests, the police can be trusted. The President supported the police and the Governors’ Forum, saying that we love our police. “The attack on the Police has the tendency for the police to be demoralised as banks, companies, private and public properties were destroyed. Other sectors were attacked; Police was not only the worse hit. The Nigerian Police will never again accept such type of violent protest. If you want to protest, we will provide security but it should be within the law. “We shall suppress violent protests with maximum force and follow the rules of engagement…The officers that died did not die in vain. We have promoted them and looked into the issue of compensation. Welfare issues will be addressed including myself. “We have health insurance scheme. In January, 2021, there will be renovation of barracks and new ones will be built. Let us not be demoralised. Follow the rules of engagement. Go out with the authority that backs you in line with the constitution.”  