 BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE THE Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, on Thursday, rewarded five winners of the different categories of its National Tertiary Admissions Performance Merit Awards with N75m each. The NATAP-M Award, which is fast becoming the biggest education award in the country, is aimed at rewarding merit, according to the Registrar of JAMB, Prof. Ishaq Oloyede. He however said it was also a way of ploughing back into the institutions, some of the gains made at the Board. Calling on the private sector to join JAMB in organising subsequent awards, Oloyede said it was necessary in order to raise the figure to as high as N300m per awardee. University of Ilorin won two categories of the award this year. The categories are: Category One – The most subscribed institution; Category Two – The most National in admissions of candidates (the institution must have admitted from every state of the federation, including the FCT and must have admitted not less than 1,500 candidates); Category Three – The most improved in intake of female students (with total intake of not less than 1,500 students). Others are Category Four – The highest in intake of international students; and Category Five – The best in compliance to Policy Guidelines. For Category One, the second runner up was the University of Benin, with a subscription of N78,747 candidates; first runner up was Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, with 85,405; and the winner was the University of Ilorin, Kwara State, with 108,917. For Category Two, the second runner up was Bayero University, Kano; first runner up, University of Abuja; while the winner was Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. Category Three, the second runner up was Federal College of Education, Potiskum (Technical), Yobe State; first runner up, Aminu Saleh College of Education, Azare, Bauchi State; and winner was Federal University, Wukari, Taraba State. Category Four, second runner up was Ahmadu Bello University, with seven international students; first runner up was Lagos State University, Ojo, with eight international students, while University of Ilorin was the winner with 66 international students. For Category 5, second runners up were University of Calabar and Cross River University of Technology, while the winner was Ogun State Institute of Technology, Igbesa.  