 BY FRANCIS KADIRI, ABUJA THE Ministry of Mines and Steel Development, in collaboration with its development partners, has organised a two-day programme to commemorate the 2020 World Aids Day with the theme, “Resilience”. The programme aims to sensitise and educate staff of the Ministry as well as conduct free HIV tests for them. Addressing the staff at the event, the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite, said the World AIDS day was globally set aside to promote awareness of the disease, stating that the Ministry observed the World AIDS Day in order to promote healthy living in the Mines and Steel sector. A statement signed by Information Officer in the ministry, Theodore Agbagwa, quoted the minister as saying, “The World AIDS day celebration is a reflection of what has been achieved, with regard to national global response to HIV and what needs to be achieved.” The minister said it was an important opportunity to celebrate and support global effort to prevent the infection. Adegbite, who was represented by the Director, Human Resources, Mohammed Suleiman, reiterated the commitment of the ministry to the prevention of HIV, saying that the ministry had set up a Ministerial HIV Committee AIDS in 2010 to anchor and promote healthy living among Nigerians and the world at large. He noted that “this year’s programme of the committee includes sensitisation, enlightenment campaign and HIV testing of the staff of the Ministry and its agencies.” Adegbite enjoined staff to take advantage of the opportunity, and imbibe the lesson of the event. Earlier, the Chief Medical Director, Defence Headquarters Medical Centre, Mogadusu Cantonment, Philip Lenka, said the World AIDS Day started in 1988, aimed at showing support for those living with HIV and AIDS, and also to identify with those who lost their loved ones to the dreaded scourge of AIDS and its related illnesses. He urged the Ministry’s Staff and other stakeholders in the programme to have it at the back of their minds that “HIV and AIDS is real.”  