 BY ADELEKE ADESANYA THE Federal Road Safety Corps in Lagos State has said it will, henceforth, go tough on drivers that violate traffic rules in the state. It said it had given all Lagos State Commands of the Corps the mandate to nip recklessness on the road in the bud by apprehending everyone found engaging in all forms of road misconduct. The Corps said it had observed that most drivers in the state now ignored traffic rules, and also make telephone calls while driving. The Sector Commander of FRSC, CC Olusegun Ogungbemide, in a statement, said traffic laws were for the safety of all road users and efforts should be made by motorists to only do those things that could make them stay alive. “We have noticed rising rate of infractions in phoning or use of phone while driving, non-use of seatbelt, rickety vehicles that are not road worthy, lane shunting and general irresponsible driving culture,” Ogungbemide said. “The National Road Traffic Regulations 2012, Section 166 (1), on Use of Communication devices while driving states that ‘no driver of a vehicle shall whilst the vehicle is in motion receive or make a telephone call in any form,’” the Corps added. It also states that “an instructor shall not make or receive telephone call in any form while supervising a learner undertaking driving lessons.” The regulations further state that a telephone call shall include: “sending or receiving oral or written messages; sending or receiving facsimile documents; sending or receiving still or moving images; accessing, surfing or browsing the internet.” The statement said, “The above traffic regulations are for our good. We have lost so many drivers and other innocent people due to distraction the use of phone caused them while on the road. “Peace loving, responsible Lagosians and road users are also passing through a lot of pains due to the actions of these few who will not obey simple regulations to keep themselves alive. “The Command cannot watch and allow these illegality to strive in a decent environment like ours, especially as we enter the peak period of the year. “All Lagos State Commands of the Corps have been given the mandate to nip these recklessness in the bud by getting all forms of road misconduct apprehended.”  