 BY BANYO TEMITAYO THE Nigerian Communications Commission has directed all operators to mandate their subscribers to provide valid National Identification Numbers (NIN) to update their SIM registration records. This followed the earlier directive on the suspension of new SIM registration by network operators. The Commission said the submission of NIN by subscribers would take place within two weeks (from December 16, 2020 to December 30, 2020), adding that after the deadline, all SIMs without NINs would be blocked from all networks. These were disclosed in a statement on Tuesday, signed by the Director, Public Affairs, NCC, Ikechukwu Adinde. The decisions, according to the statement, were arrived at during an urgent meeting of stakeholders, convened by the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, on Monday. The meeting had in attendance the Chief Executive Officers and Management of the NCC, the National Information Technology Development Agency, National Identity Management Commission, as well as the CEOs and Management staff of all service providers in the industry. The statement read, “At the meeting, the need to consolidate the achievements of last year’s SIM registration audit and improve the performance and sanity of the sector was exhaustively discussed and all stakeholders agreed that urgent drastic measures have now become inevitable to improve the integrity and transparency of the SIM registration process. “To this end, the following decisions were taken for immediate implementation by all Network Operators: “Affirmation of the earlier directive to totally suspend registration of NEW SIMs by all operators. “Operators to require ALL their subscribers to provide valid National Identification Number (NIN) to update SIM registration records. “The submission of NIN by subscribers to take place within two weeks (from today December 16, 2020 and end by 30 December, 2020). “After the deadline, ALL SIMs without NINs are to be blocked from the networks. “A Ministerial Task Force comprising the Minister and all the CEOs (among others) as members is to monitor compliance by all networks. “Violations of this directive will be met by stiff sanctions, including the possibility of withdrawal of operating licence. “The general public is hereby urged to ensure that their NINs are captured in their SIM registration data. “All inconveniences which might be occasioned by this directive are deeply regretted.”  