 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI THE Chairman of Afikpo-South Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, Eni Uduma Chima, has accused the lawmaker representing Ebonyi Central Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Joseph Ogba, of forging his 1989 and 1990 Ordinary Level West African Examination results. He alleged that the West African Examination Council had confirmed that the WAEC Results of 1989 and 1990 being paraded by the Senator were products of examination malpractice, impersonation and criminality. The Local Government Chairman disclosed this in a statement titled, “Further Musing on Senator Sergeant Joseph Obinna Ogba on his unwarranted insults and false accusations against the Ebonyi State Governor”, made available to journalists in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State capital. Chima claimed that stakeholders of Ebonyi Central had, in 2019, questioned the results, owing to an alleged discrepancy in the passport photographs on the two Ordinary Level Results. According to him, the photographs were those of two different persons and not that of “Candidate Joseph Obinna Ogba.” Chima said, “I reiterate my erstwhile position that Sergeant Ogba has scanty academic qualification but will add, since he has brought it up as an issue, that his basic qualification of Ordinary Level West African Examination Certificate is questionable and in fact has once been questioned by the Stakeholders of Ebonyi Central Senatorial District in 2019. “After verification of the Results upon application to the West African Examination Council, the Council unequivocally confirmed that the WAEC Results of 1989 and 1990, being paraded by Joseph Obinna Ogba as his, are products of examination malpractice, impersonation and criminality as the passport photographs on the two Ordinary Level Results are those of two different persons and not that of Candidate Joseph Obinna Ogba. “Ogba’s attempt to replace the mercenary’s passport photographs embossed on the spurious certificates with his (Ogba’s) own, with the connivance of Mr. Stephen Ali, a WAEC official, failed and led to the dismissal of Mr. Ali from West African Examination Council. “It beats one’s imagination that even the mercenary whose picture is embossed on Ogba’s WAEC certificates could not pass the Art Subjects he wrote in a single sitting, talk of birds of identical plumage flocking together and congregating within the same proximity.” “The issue of Ogba’s O’level Results being the voice of Jacob and the hand of Esau is a knowledge in the public domain and will remain an albatross which may prove fatal to his far-fetched fantasy of attaining a gubernatorial position,” the statement said. Efforts to get the reaction of the Senator were not fruitful as of the time of filing this report.  