 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI APEX Igbo socio-cultural group, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has set up a three-member committee to wade into the feud between Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State and former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Pius Anyim. The President General of the Group, John Nwodo, was said to have announced this at the general meeting of Ohanaeze Ndigbo (Ime Obi) held at Nike Lake Resort, Enugu. This was disclosed in a press statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the Deputy Governor of Ebonyi State, Monday Uzor, on Monday. The committee members, according to the statement, include Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, Igwe Alfred Achebe and Sen. Ken Nnamani. Nwodo described as unfortunate the media war by the two Igbo leaders in the past weeks, and charged the committee to stop at nothing to reconcile them. The Organisation also received and approved the report of the Prof. Osita Ogbu-led Alaigbo Stabilisation Fund Steering Committee. The President General said under the arrangement, Ndigbo Development Foundation and Ndigbo Investment would be set up to serve as a catalyst for the development of Igbo land. On the forthcoming general election of the  Group, slated for January 10, 2021, Nwodo announced the electoral committee saddled with the responsibility of conducting elections into various offices. He appealed to Ndigbo to be diplomatic in all forms of agitations for the sake of national unity. On his part, Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State urged the technical committee to come up with implementable proposals that would benefit Igbos at home and in the diaspora and assured that Imo whose turn it was to produce the next President General, would ensure that a credible candidate emerged. He announced that South East Governors approved a parting gift of a Prado Jeep to  Nwodo, and Achebe, the outgoing President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo and outgoing Chairman of the South East Traditional Rulers Council, respectively. The “Imeobi” which is the  highest decision making organ of Ohanaeze, was attended by notable Igbo sons and daughters, including Umahi, who was represented by his Deputy Governor, Kelechi Igwe.  