 THE first COVID-19 shots have been given to more than 1.1 million people in four countries, according to data collected by Bloomberg. It’s the start of the biggest vaccination campaign in history and one of the largest logistical challenges ever undertaken. Vaccinations in the United States began this week with health-care workers, and 24 states reported the first 49,567 doses administered. Those numbers are expected to surge in coming days as more states work through their early allocations of shots and begin to report their numbers. These are the first of an initial distribution of 5.9 million doses of Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE’s vaccine. About half of those doses are being distributed this week, according to a state-by-state breakdown of shipments released by the US government. The other half are being held in reserve until three weeks from now, when those who got the vaccine will get the second shot of the two-dose inoculation. Global Effort to Stop Covid Canada and the UK are among the countries that have also authorized the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, and it’s expected to get emergency clearance in the EU as soon as next week. A similar vaccine from Moderna Inc. could be allowed for use in the U.S. as early as Friday. Both vaccines were found to reduce coronavirus infections by 95% in trials of tens of thousands of volunteers. Other countries have gotten a head start on vaccinations. China and Russia authorized their own shots in July and August, before they’d been fully tested. Since then, they’ve vaccinated hundreds of thousands of people. The R&D Timeline Bloomberg is tracking the development of nine of the globe’s most promising vaccines. A total of five vaccines are now available for public use, in limited quantities, in at least six countries. Nations have poured billions of dollars into developing new vaccine technologies, testing them in thousands of volunteers, scaling up manufacturing, and then bringing them to market in record time. None of these shots, on its own, is enough to inoculate a global population of some 7.8 billion people. But together they represent humanity’s best chance of ending a scourge that has claimed more than 1.6 million lives and triggered global economic calamity. – Bloomberg  