 BY AYO ESAN THE Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in Lagos State, Adedeji Doherty, has reminded Lagosians and Nigerians as a whole that love is the reason for this festive season, saying he is extending the hand of fellowship to all party members. In his Christmas message, Doherty said PDP members in Lagos State should come together to foster a stronger unit in order to deliver the state from its present state, noting that they must do away with anything that would not add value. He said, “I besiege us all to use this period to mend fences by making peace and working towards living a friendlier communal life and ultimately building a stronger society. “I wish to reiterate that as the birth of Christ brought salvation to the world, we should all come together to foster a stronger unit as a party and consequently deliver our state from the present shackles.
I further besiege us to do away with anything that would not add value to ourselves, the Party and the State. “We cannot all be on the same page all the time, hence, I use this medium to call for tolerance of one another’s opinions and views. This is a season of Love, I hereby extend the hands of fellowship to all and sundry.” He urged Nigerians to remember, as they celebrate, “that love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud. It does not dishonour others, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs. Love does not delight in evil, but rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, and always perseveres.” “I preach Love now and always. I pray that going forward, we must all prepare to keep the atmosphere calm and peaceful, particularly as we approach the forthcoming local government elections, we must all determine to achieve success together,” Doherty said. He added, “I also hereby pray for journey mercies and God’s protection for all those travelling at this period “I would not forget to remind us all, that COVID-19 is real. We should all please remember to adhere strictly to all COVID-19 protocols as laid down by all necessary agencies. Let us all remember to stay safe.”  