 … says ‘it’s devil’s work BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI THE Police in Ebonyi State have arraigned a pastor, identified as Christopher Ebenyi, for allegedly defiling a five-year-old girl. The suspect, 45, is said to be a Pastor of the Lord’s Chosen Charismatic Renewal Movement, Abakaliki, Ebonyi State capital. He was said to have committed the offence at No. 39 Nsi Road, Abakaliki, in the Abakaliki Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, on December 15, 2020. It was gathered that the Pastor perpetrated the act when he went to the victim’s house to sell immune booster drugs to her mother. On getting there, The Point learnt, the victim’s mother went out to get some items, which gave the suspect the opportunity to commit the crime. The mother of the victim, name withheld, said when she got back to the house, she met the Pastor inserting his fingers into her daughter’s vagina. She raised the alarm, according to her, and the Pastor blamed the devil. “I called the people around and they came and started beating him. He was then arrested,” she said. Meanwhile, the Pastor was arraigned on a one-count charge of indecent assault. According to Police Prosecutor, ASP Mathias Eze, he committed an offence punishable under Section 222 of the Criminal Code, Cap. 33, Vol 1, Laws of Ebonyi State of Nigeria, 2009. The charge read, “That you Christopher Ebenyi ‘m’ on the 15th day of December, 2020, at No. 39 Nsi Road, Abakaliki in the Abakaliki Magisterial District did finger the vagina of one girl aged 5 years and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 222 of the Criminal Code, Cap. 33, Vol. 1, Laws of Ebonyi State of Nigeria, 2009.” Counsel to the defendant, C.F. Ogbonnaya, however applied for bail, which was opposed by the Prosecuting Counsel on the grounds that the defendant, who confessed to the crime, might appear in court again. “I am Pastor Christopher Ebenyi. I am from Eziulo in the Ishielu Local Government Area of the state. “I know the victim at Convent in Abakaliki. I got to their house and I called her, she came and I touched her private part,” the defendant said in his confessional statement. Chief Magistrate, Mrs Nnenna Onuoha, granted the defendant bail in the sum of N50,000.00 with one surety, in like sum and adjourned the matter till January 28, 2021, for trial.  