 BY ABISOYE JOHNSON FIVE people have been arrested by the Police in Ogun State for allegedly killing a housewife and a commercial motorcyclist. The deceased – Memunat Akinde, and Ibikunle Ajose – had been missing since October 1, it was learnt. Memunat, 45, a fishmonger, reportedly left her house at Idoleyin area of Ado-Odo Ota Local Government area for the market to buy fish, and had told the ‘okada’ rider to take her there. When both the Okada and the woman did not return home, Memunat’s husband lodged a complaint at Ado-Odo Divisional Police Headquarters where the case was formally incidented. According to the Ogun State Police Command, the case was later transferred to the anti-kidnapping unit of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department on the order of the Commissioner of Police, CP Edward Awolowo Ajogun. The CP was said to have given the team a strict directive to unravel the mystery behind the disappearance of the two persons within the shortest possible period. The team then embarked on an intelligence-based investigation, traced one of the suspects, identified as Okediran Monsuru, to Badagry, and apprehended him. His arrest, it was learnt, led to the arrest of three others, identified as Ajaoba Monday, Akewusola Wajud and Nupo Pona. The four suspects were said to have confessed that they were working for one Lebo, a notorious land grabber. According to them, they accosted the deceased house wife and Okada rider along the road at Abisoye Village and kidnapped them to an uncompleted building in a bushy area. They confessed that they tied the victims up and later called their boss on phone to tell him that they had succeeded in getting two victims. They said when Lebo got to where they had tied the victims, he ordered them to slaughter them. They confessed that three of them – Okediran Monsuru, Ajaoba Monday and Akewusola Wajud – held the victims down while Nupo Pona slaughtered them with a cutlass. They went on to narrate how the fifth suspect, a herbalist identified as Sunday, was called to come to the spot, after the victims had been killed. It was on the herbalist’s arrival that the bodies of the victims were cut into pieces and the parts stacked in a sack brought by Sunday. Sunday, the herbalist, was said to have taken the parts away for money-making ritual. The woman’s head was said to have been recovered at the herbalist’s shrine. The five suspects are in police custody, while a manhunt has been launched for Lebo. The Ogun CP commended the investigating team for their determination and resilience in bringing the culprits to book. He has however directed that the arrested suspects be charged to court without further delay while saying those on the run must be apprehended.  