 AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI SOME police officers posted to Noyo Police Station in Ikwo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State escaped death, on Monday, after an attack by suspected hoodlums, who set the station and patrol van ablaze. According to the Divisional Police Officer of the area, Danjuma Dantata, the hoodlums broke into the armoury and made away with police rifles. He thanked the Executive Chairman of Ikwo LGA, Stephen Orogwu, for his quick intervention. The executive chairman, who visited the scene, condemned the attack on the police station by the hoodlums and ordered the immediate transfer of the police officers who sustained different degrees of injuries during the attack to Alex Ekwueme Federal Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki for proper treatment. He then called on security agencies to fully investigate the matter. The chairman said, “I came because of the distress calls I received last night over the attack on Noyo police station. I have gone round the station and saw the burnt vehicle. I have seen their attempt to burn the main police building, and how they vandalised the offices. “I have done the assessment and I will report back to His Excellency, the Governor of Ebonyi State, Chief David Nweze Umahi for his quick intervention on the matter. “Though I have sent him a message last night concerning the attack, I needed to be here this morning to ascertain the level of destruction. I condemn the act and urge the security agents, including the Police, DSS and community vigilante to do their job by conducting a full investigation into the matter and bringing the perpetrators to book.” He, however, enjoined youths of the area to tap into the State Government’s empowerment programs rather than involving themselves in all forms of criminality. He  thanked the security agencies and joint community vigilantes for their prompt action during the attack and enjoined the people of Ikwo LGA, especially Noyo community, to go back to their normal businesses, saying the security agents and community vigilantes had been strategically positioned to safeguard and protect lives and property of the people in that axis.  