 BY FOLASHADE SHIYANBOLA PRESIDENT and Vice Chancellor, Babcock University, illishan-Remo, Ogun State, Prof. Ademola Tayo, has appealed to the Federal Government and relevant authorities to formulate policies that will guarantee the safety of Nigerian journalists, including life insurance and improved remuneration. The VC made the call during a media luncheon with the Education Writers Association of Nigeria, held at the university at the weekend. According to him, the institution recognises the fact that the media plays a critical role in a nation’s development as a strong facilitator of socio-economic growth and political stability. “This is why the media remains a key component of our community. Your constructive ideas and views have not only welded together our nation as an indivisible entity, they have sustained our democracy, enhanced good governance, and they have served, for us, as elixir for improved academic products and services to our teeming stakeholders and shareholders,” he added. He noted that in spite of their relevance, so little was being done by the nation to appreciate the sacrifices of journalists as they continued to work for the survival of the nation, “and for keeping us, up to speed with local and global happenings through your reporting.” The VC said, “At such a time as this, we believe you need some respite; a time to relax and cool off from the stress and tension of reporting. We really admire your courage and tenacity, and we are happy to honour you today. “Not minding the prevalence of COVID-19, you are still on the streets- everywhere! You are like the endangered species! Gentlemen of the Press, we praise you. In the course of reporting behind the firing lines, you and your spouses might have had close encounters with life threatening situations. “This may be part of the many inspiring stories you have to tell someday, if not now. Nonetheless, we charge you as professionals, that, in spite of the trials and tribulation that some of you might be facing for diligently pursuing your career in the nation’s best interest, we enjoin you to continue to uphold the tenets of truth, objectivity, fairness and integrity which are the hallmarks of great journalism.” He added that these were some of the values Babcock shared as an institution while explaining further that these timeless values made the University what it was – blazing the trail and making a difference. “For over two decades, Babcock University has significantly contributed to nation’s socio-political, industrial and cultural development through innovations,” he said.  