 EASTENDERS and Carry On legend Dame Barbara Windsor has died at the age of 83 following her tragic but brave battle against Alzheimer’s disease Dame Barbara Windsor has died aged 83, her husband Scott Mitchell has announced. The EastEnders and Carry On legend was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s in 2014, but kept her condition secret until symptoms started to show in 2018. Sadly, her condition had worsened in recent months and she died at 8.35pm on Thursday at a London care home. Scott said the cherished actress’ final weeks were “typical of how she lived her life” and “full of humour, drama and a fighting spirit until the end”. Mr Mitchell told PA: “Her passing was from Alzheimer’s/dementia and Barbara eventually died peacefully and I spent the last seven days by her side. “Myself, her family and friends will remember Barbara with love, a smile and affection for the many years of her love, fun, friendship and brightness she brought to all our lives and the entertainment she gave to so many thousands of others during her career. “Barbara’s final weeks were typical of how she lived her life. Full of humour, drama and a fighting spirit until the end. “It was not the ending that Barbara or anyone else living with this very cruel disease deserve. “I will always be immensely proud of Barbara’s courage, dignity and generosity dealing with her own illness and still trying to help others by raising awareness for as long as she could.” While Barbara’s friends, family members and husband Scott had rallied around her with love and support, she had become lonely during the coronavirus lockdown as she didn’t understand why no one was visiting her. Scott moved Barbara into a care home earlier this year on the advice of her neurologist. The actress spoke publicly about her condition in 2018, encouraging people to run the 2019 London Marathon in aid of Dementia Revolution, to “support ground-breaking research to find a cure for a condition that affects so many people, like me”. Tributes have rolled in for a much-loved treasure. Actress Danniella Westbrook, who played Dame Barbara’s on-screen daughter Sam Mitchell on EastEnders, tweeted: “MY HEART IS BROKEN .Bar you will always be in my heart forever. Good bye , I LOVE YOU XXX RIP Barbara WINDSOR.” A representative for actor Steve McFadden, who plays Dame Barbara’s on-screen son Phil Mitchell, told PA he was “devastated” by her death. TV presenter Jonathan Ross tweeted: “Barbara Windsor in real life was everything you might have hoped for. So warm, so funny, so kind. Goodnight sweetheart x” Born Barbara Ann Deeks in 1937, she took the stage name Barbara Windsor in 1953 after being inspired by Queen Elizabeth’s coronation. Babs started acting at just 13, after training at Aida Foster School in Golders Green. Following some theatre roles, her film debut in 1954 saw her play a rebellious schoolgirl in The Belles of St Trinian’s. From the 1950s to 2011, Barbara made theatre appearances around the country, appearing in pantomimes such as Aladdin, Dick Whittington and Cinderella. In 1965 she was nominated for Best Featured Actress in a Musical at the Tony Awards. Barbara became famous in the 1960s, with roles in the Carry On… films. She would appear in nine of the bawdy comedies, from 1964 to 1977, and also starred in two years in the West End revue Carry On London! But Barbara would become most famous for her role as no-nonsense matriarch Peggy Mitchell in EastEnders. She played the pub landlady from 1994 to 2016 – a role for which she won two British Soap Awards: Best Actress in 1999 and a Lifetime Achievement Award in 2009. Peggy was best known for the phrase “Get Outta My Pub!” Her EastEnders life saw her have numerous romances, manage the iconic Queen Vic pub, and even run for local government. Although she first survived breast cancer, the character was killed off in 2016 as the cancer returned and lead her to suicide, after an emotional week of episodes. – mirror.co.uk  