Human rights activist and Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Mike Ozekhome, has condemned  the recent attack on Justice Mary Ukaego Peter –  Odili over the Supreme Court judgment delivered in  respect of the Balyesa State governorship election, saying it is a sign that the judiciary is  not safe to perform its duty in Nigeria. The legal icon, while speaking with our correspondent said,  “The attack on the Hon Justice Mary Ukaego Peter- Odili is highly condemnable, provocative, uncalled for and it’s certainly dangerous for the independence and courageous decisions template of the Supreme Court of Nigeria, which is the apex court. “It is sickening and outrageous that Justice Mary Peter- Odili’s residence was singled out and attacked by hired political hoodlums, miscreants and thugs, just for merely carrying out her judicial  functions of heading a five-member panel that delivered the judgement sacking the former governor-elect of Bayelsa State. He further said, “It is interesting to note that Justice Mary Peter-Odili did not even write or deliver the lead judgment.  The lead judgment was written and delivered by Hon. Justice Ejembi Eko, JSC. More significant is the fact that the entire judgment was a unanimous decision and pronouncement made by the entire five members of the Supreme Court panel that heard the matter. Why would she be singled out just because she is from Rivers State, near Bayelsa State? Could not the people doing this read simple history of the last two to three months, to see that the governors of Bayelsa State and Rivers States had not been in the best of terms, even though they belong to the same political party (the PDP)? The danger inherent in this ugly episode will reverberate and ricochet in the foreseeable future. “What this simply boils down to is that once a judgement is given and the political party that is negatively affected does not like it, then members of that political party can take the laws into their hands, go to the houses of the Judges or Justices that delivered the judgement and attack them. Where then is the Independence of the Judiciary? What happened to Imo State where the entire panel headed by the Chief Justice of Nigeria removed a whole government and enthroned the APC and its governor, a person who had come fourth in the election and whose party did not even win a single House of Assembly seat? Why the Supreme Court Justices were not also attacked for that judgment? Why did selective amnesia engulf these sponsored political thugs? Why this ethnical colouring of an attack?  Why this religious colouring of an attack?  Why this political delinquency? Why this attempt to annex the Judiciary to the apron strings of the Executive? Why this attempt to intimidate, overawe and humiliate a very well-known, dispassionate, brilliant, intelligent and intellectually-grounded Jurist of impeachable credentials? “This is a Judge who rose gradually from the rungs of the ladder, first as a magistrate; then a Chief Magistrate; and then a High Court Judge; and then a Justice of the Court of Appeal;   finally anchoring at the Supreme Court, the highest court of the land. This is a distinguished iconic Jurist who, even as First Lady of Rive2rs State, never allowed the lure of office to entrap her, or to colour her vision. She carefully kept away from public limelight. She kept to her duties strictly as a role model Judicial Officer, refusing to be deified, or heroine-worshiped by politicians, as others in her position are want to do. It is that great woman that some miscreants attempted to attack and to destroy her house. I condemn this unwarranted and unprovoked attack on the residence of The Honourable Justice Mary Peter-Odili in the strongest words possible, not just because she is a Justice of the Supreme Court, but because she belongs to the Judiciary that has already been thoroughly brow-beaten and humiliated enough by the Executive branch of government.” 