A security guard, Mustapha Muhammed, has allegedly raped a 16-year-old girl (names withheld) suffering from the Down Syndrome Operatives in the Bariga area of Lagos State. Our correspondent gathered that Muhammed, who is working as a security guard in a house at Sholanke Street, allegedly raped the teenager, who is a student of Modupe Cole Memorial School, Akoka, Yaba, Lagos, at about 11pm. A rights activist, Toyin Okanlawon, who confirmed the incident, said, “The perpetrator’s kinsmen have been going to the Gender Unit at the Lagos State Police Command to bail him out.” Reports by residents and eye witnesses said Muhammed was caught in the act by members of the public, when a noise from the girl was traced to an abandoned vehicle around the area that night. It was gathered that when the suspect was caught by the people, he knelt down begging to be spared for his wrongdoing. But he was dragged by a mob to the police station within the area. Residents also said some kinsmen of the suspect in the area attempted to foment trouble, when they saw Muhammed arrested by the mob, but soft-pedalled when they were briefed about the crime he had committed. One of the suspect’s kinsmen, Ahmed, said they were misinformed that Muhammed was caught stealing. An eyes witness said, “A case of defilement perpetrated by the man was reported yesterday evening by 11:30pm. He was caught in the act defiling the girl (special child) with Down Syndrome. “We sent a message to the DPO to help receive them because the suspect was led to the station by those that apprehended him. “We later got a report that they’ve been speaking their language as usual and asking the special child to touch where she was hurt. “I’m not too sure if the DPO is around till we got to the station tomorrow morning. I’m aware he travelled for a special assignment.” Meanwhile, police were said to have detained the suspect for prosecution while the victim was taken to a hospital for proper care. Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkanah, said investigation on the matter was ongoing. He added that the suspect would face the law if found culpable. 