Former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Chief Bode George, has said that his party and the ruling All Progressives Congress must be totally reformed, if they will make a good showing in the 2023 general elections. George, who was speaking with our correspondent on the platform he’s likely to contest the 2023 presidential election, said the two major political parties in the country must undergo total overhaul before the polls. “Which party? I am sure our party, the PDP, is also looking forward to total reform. APC is in total tatters. I said it long ago that it is a confederation of strange fellows. It can’t work and you can see that it is not working. The chief manager is on one direction, the other governors are heading to another direction; that is a scattered house. A divided house is a defeated house. And so our own party, the PDP, too, must buckle up,” George said. On the 2023 presidency, he said:  “The issue of who wants to be a president or not in 2023, that is, if we are still all together like this, then we can talk. For me, with my age, my experience, I know there are managers now. Our major concern should be what role they are playing. How well are they managing? 2023, that’s about three years from now, three good years, who knows whether he would even be alive? So, let us do first the needful and stabilise the platform on which you are going to move. So, I want to thank those who have mooted it, who have spoken about it; it is not tomorrow, it is not next week. It is not next month, 2023 and may all the good wishes of God come to be. “For me I am more concerned now with the image of the country. If you see the image of our nation. I ask a simple question, where is that giant of Africa? You know that was our nick name, Nigeria the giant of Africa. We liberated them in South Africa , Namibia, Angola , Mozambique and coming to our West Africa here , Sierra Leone, Liberia; you know how many lives we lost in Liberia. “Now, Rwanda is called for G7 meeting and Nigeria is left alone. They invited leaders to come to Davos; the interaction there alone is enough, we were left out. Who will be first among equal at our size. That is why I said everybody, in every corner, cool your temper. Hunger has no tribal marks, hunger doesn’t wear religious caps and it is all over the country. If the platform is wobbling, a little wind can blow it up. We must not pray for that.” 