The first case of COVID-19, popularly called Corona virus, in Nigeria was confirmed on Friday in Lagos, the nation’s commercial hub. An Italian citizen who works in Nigeria and returned from Milan, Italy to Lagos, on February 25, 2020, was diagnosed of the killer virus and was confirmed by the virology laboratory at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, part of the laboratory network at the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. The World Health Organisation has, however, rolled out tips on how you can protect yourself and others from getting infected with the virus. The tips are as follows: Wash your hands frequently. Regularly and thoroughly clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand. Rub or wash them with soap and water. Maintain social distancing Maintain at least one metre (three feet) distance between yourself and anyone who is coughing or sneezing. When someone coughs or sneezes they spray small liquid droplets from their nose or mouth which may contain the virus. If you are too close, you can breathe in the droplets, including the COVID-19 virus if the person coughing has the disease Avoid touching eyes, nose and mouth Hands touch many surfaces and can pick up viruses. Once contaminated, hands can transfer the virus to your eyes, nose or mouth. From there, the virus can enter your body and can make you sick. Practice respiratory hygiene Make sure you and the people around you follow good respiratory hygiene. This means covering your mouth and nose with your bent elbow or tissue when you cough or sneeze. Then dispose of the used tissue immediately. Droplets spread the virus. By following good respiratory hygiene you protect the people around you from viruses such as cold, flu and COVID-19. If you have fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical care early Stay home if you feel unwell. If you have a fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical attention and call in advance Follow the directions of your local health authority National and local authorities will have the most up to date information on the situation in your area. Calling in advance will allow your health care provider to quickly direct you to the right health facility. This will also protect you and help prevent the spread of viruses and other infections Stay informed and follow the advice given by your healthcare provide Stay informed on the latest developments about COVID-19. Follow advice given by your healthcare provider, your national and local public health authority or your employer on how to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 National and local authorities will have the most up to date information on whether COVID-19 is spreading in your area. They are best placed to advise on what people in your area should be doing to protect themselves WHO advises that you stay at home if you begin to feel unwell, even with mild symptoms such as headache and a slight runny nose, until you recover. Why? Avoiding contact with others and visits to medical facilities will allow these facilities to operate more effectively and help protect you and others from possible COVID-19 and other viruses. 