 Some miners in Lagos, whose activities were disrupted by the construction of Dangote refinery, are now demanding N500million compensation from Dangote Group. The miners under the aegis of Sholaj Global Resources and its associates, through their lawyers, Destiny Chambers, claimed that the construction of the refinery and the laying of pipes had denied them access to their area of operation. The miners reminded Dangote Group that the mineral and mining Act and their rights over the area of mining concession took priority over whatever grant the Dangote Group had to use the same area. But spokesman for Dangote Group, Mr. Tony Chiejina, said, “Where were they when we were dealing with the issue of compensation? If they want to go to court, they can go to court!” Obum Takon & Company are asking for the sum for “the permanent loss of use of area of mining concession” and application of its mining lease granted by the Federal government. The miners claimed that they were the holders of mining license No.: 21777 duly issued by the mining cadastral office of the Federal Ministry of Mines and Steel Development, pursuant to the Mineral and Mining Act of 2007 and over land area of 32100HA, particularly situated at and comprising the Onode Eyin Osa and surrounding communities along the Lagos/Epe Expressway in the Epe Local Government Area of Lagos State. They further alleged that since October 2018, mining operations in the entire area of mining concession had to be stopped because of Dangote Group’s ongoing pipe laying activities, making it impossible for them to gain entry to their sites due to heavy duty trucks used for mining operations. The miners also accused Dangote group of not giving them prior notice before commencing on the pipe laying activities, adding that this had forced them to default on their obligations to supply laterite, which were pending at the time, to several clients and for which they were now demanding payment for resultant damages. They further accused the Dangote Group of “knowingly” laying pipes right at the point of entry to their entire area of mining concession, which prevented them from gaining entry to their mining sites.  