Two friends have allegedly shot to death their friend, Kelechi Isaac, while testing the efficacy of a traditional bullet proof charm. The incident occurred in Amasiri community in Afikpo North Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. Our correspondent gathered that the three friends had sought traditional means of protecting themselves and to tackle the menace of armed Fulani herdsmen alleged to have been terrorising their community, with the aid of the traditional ‘bullet proof’ charm. It was gathered that Isaac had told his friends, Richard Oko Okpu, 20 and Ginikachi Idam, 18, that he had secured a bullet proof charm that would protect them against any attack by the herdsmen. He allegedly told his friend that they would need to test the efficacy of the bullet proof with a hunter’s gun. It was in the process that they allegedly fired some shots at Isaac which killed him. The two suspects were arrested by the police and arraigned before a Chief Magistrate’s Court presided over by Mr. Chinedu Agama. They were arraigned on a two-count charge of unlawfully shooting the deceased with a gun and murder. Police prosecutor, Edet Effiong, said the offences are punishable under Sections 319(1) and 324 of the Criminal Code Cap 33, Volume 1 Laws of Ebonyi State of Nigeria, 2009. The defence counsel, Nwokposi P.C, prayed the court for bail for the suspects. But the magistrate, who said that his court lacked jurisdiction to entertain the matter, ordered the suspects to be remanded at the Nigeria Correctional Service Custodial Centre, Abakaliki. He also directed that all documents and exhibits relating to the matter be transferred to Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) for further advice. The matter was adjourned to March 3, 2020 for report of compliance and further prosecutions at the high court. The charges read in part: ” That you Richard Oko Okpu, 20years, and Ginikachi Idam, 18years, on the 5th day of February 2020 at Amasiri  Afikpo North under jurisdiction of this honorable court, did conspire among yourselves to commit felony to wit murder and thereby committed offence punishable under Section 324 of the Criminal Code Cap 33 Volume 1 Laws of Ebonyi State of Nigeria, 2009. “That you, Richard Oko Okpu, 20years and Ginikachi Idam, 18years, on the same date and place in the afore-mentioned magisterial district, did unlawfully cause the death of one Kelechi Isaac, male, by shooting him with a gun and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 319 (1) of the Criminal Code Cap 33 Volume 1 Laws of Ebonyi State of Nigeria 2009.” 