Former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Chief Olabode George, and Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo- Olu, have  said for  Nigeria  to move forward,  there must be devolution of power to the states. Both George and Sanwo –Olu made this known during the Third Freedom Online Annual Lecture in Lagos on Tuesday. Delivering the keynote address at the event with the theme: “Resolved: Nigeria- Foundation, Fundamentals and Future,” George said, “To move forward, to recreate a new Nigerian space, power must be devolved to the states. “The centre must be stripped of its overbearing, crushing responsibilities. Let the states look within their localities and define their paths, cultivating their resources to be self-reliant rather than waiting for monthly handouts from the centre. To be sure, we are running a country predicated on charity, encouraging laziness, discouraging hard work and creative enterprise. “Again, in a true federation, the states are the arbiters of their own fortunes. They must create wealth by looking within their environment to exploit their natural resources to grow their economies.” He further said, “The South Western security initiative  known as Amotekun, the  Northern security outfit known as  Shege Ka Fasa  and all the sundry security outfits emanating from South South and South East  are necessary complementary  community policing agencies  to enhance the effectiveness  of the Federal organ.” He said the overwhelming unwieldy centre must restrict itself to national defence against external aggression, the printing of currency and international diplomacy, while other powers should be devolved to the states as in a true Federation. Sanwo-Olu  while delivering an address, said each state should be allowed to drill oil, generate and distribute power and make returns to the Federal Government. Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, said Nigeria should copy Pakistan, which had now decided to allocate more powers and resources to the provinces and less to the centre. Sanwo-Olu said, “We have created a very powerful centre. We all gathered in Abuja every month for FAAC allocation. But we need to learn from Pakistan that is now giving more to the provinces. “Much more power must be devolving to states. Why should registration of companies be the prerogative of CAC?  Each state should license their drivers; that is the way it should be.” 