 … releases guidelines for Edo, Ondo guber polls The National Working Committee of the African Democratic Congress, on Thursday, approved a N12.5billion budget for the 2020 fiscal year. The budget was presented after the party’s first Financial Officers Quarterly Conference, which brought together the Treasurers, Auditors and Financial Secretaries of ADC from the 36 states of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory. The National Chairman, ADC, Chief Ralphs Okey Nwosu, who disclosed this at the party’s extended National Executive Committee meeting, said, with about 350,000 executive officers of the party at all levels, and 12,000 staff, ADC would continue to showcase the best of processes and protocol. He said this just as the NEC also approved guidelines and timetable for the 2020 Edo and Ondo State gubernatorial polls The 2020 ADC budget covers rents, furniture, salaries, events, media, publications, trainings, printing, membership and statutory political activities. The budget documents were presented, at the NEC meeting, to ADC’s Board of Trustees, represented by the BoT Secretary, Dr. Gbolade Osinowo. The National Chairman said, “Within the last month, our country has been in the news for many wrong reasons as usual. This seems to have become the permanent feature of our time. The security situation has gotten worse. The APC government’s cluelessness has become clear to all. “Cataloguing the failures of the Government, the security challenges, and the effects of poverty and unemployment in the land now seem irrelevant because the Government has no idea what to do. We need to concentrate on what we need to do to rescue our country and get our people back to life again.” Nwosu said ADC had been in talks with 63 political parties on how to best integrate “our efforts and resources for a more viable engagement with the people.” This, he said, had been ongoing for about two years, adding that “irrespective of the INEC approach, we are making good progress and the outcome of this effort will be made known to Nigerians soon.” He added, “Effectiveness is desired in leadership, and efficiency is the outcome of good management. For effectiveness, efficiency and sustainable quality outcome, the ADC has adopted the policy of radical transparency. This is a policy of total openess in all its dealings within and without, which shapes the integral aspects of the ADC DNA. “Our radical transparency principle ensures that due diligence, fidelity, loyalty, focus and commitment to public good become engrained in our minds and service culture as party members, executives and political leaders in government offices.” 