The suspended Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Ibrahim Magu, has said that he is not contemplating any legal proceeding against the Federal Government, saying he has “uncommon respect and admiration” for the administration. Magu appreciated the Presidential Panel investigating the activities of the EFCC under his watch for ordering his release from Police custody, and called for a fair-minded probe proceedings against him. He said this through his lawyer, Wahab Shittu, in a statement made available to our correspondent on Friday night. The former EFCC boss also urged the Nigerian people to maintain an open mind until the conclusion of the proceedings, saying he acknowledged the integrity of President Muhammadu Buhari and the Chairman of the probe panel, Justice Ayo Salami. The lawyer’s statement read:
“Please note that our client wish to be credited as having said the following 1. Our client appreciates the panel for ordering his release from custody even if the panel indicated it never ordered his detention at anytime in the first place. 2. Our client appreciates the efforts of the Buhari Administration in its commitment to the war against corruption including the ongoing probe being undertaken by the Hon justice Salami investigation panel. 3. Our client undertakes to cooperate fully with the Salami panel by making available to the panel formal response to the allegations against him in the social media platforms and Newspapers since he has not been formally served with copies of the allegations against him by the panel. 4. Our client strongly appeals for a fair- minded probe proceedings against him including an open mind by the Nigerian people until the probe process is completed. 5. Our client acknowledges the widely respected integrity of Mr President and chairman of the probe panel, Hon Justice Ayo salami ( Rtd) and is hopeful that the truth in his case will ultimately prevail. 6. Our client urges Nigerians and the international community to continue to support the current administration’s quest to rid our society against graft. 7. Our client takes his current travails with philosophical calmness without bitterness in the belief that no one is above the law, that no matter how big anyone is, the law is bigger. 8. Our client pleads that no publication be attributed to him without clearance from him directly or his counsel on record. 9. Our client will NEVER be a party to any derogatory comments against this Administration which he considers himself to be an integral part of, and the President he respects so much. 10. Our client is not contemplating any legal proceedings against this Government that has given him an opportunity to serve and for which he retains uncommon respect and admiration mainly because of the commitment of the Administration to the anti corruption crusades which he shares with passion.” 