The African Development Bank has said the economic crisis caused by the Coronavirus pandemic could cost countries within the African continent about $236.7billion in Gross Domestic Product. The bank made the projection in its African Economic Outlook (Supplement), which was released on Tuesday. The bank, in the report, said if the health crisis continued beyond the first half of 2020, there would be a deeper GDP contraction in 2020 of 3.4 per cent, down by 7.3 percentage points from the growth projected before the outbreak of COVID–19. The bank also projected that GDP losses could range between $173.1billion and $236.7billion in 2020–2021. With the projected contraction of growth, the bank noted that Africa could suffer GDP losses in 2020 between $145.5bn (baseline) and $189.7bn (worst case), from the pre COVID–19 estimated GDP of $2.59trillion for 2020. It said some losses would be carried over to 2021, since the projected recovery would be partial. For the 2021 fiscal period, the AfDB projected that GDP losses could move from $27.6billion (baseline) up to $47billion (worst case) from the potential GDP of $2.76trillion without the pandemic. According to AfDB, the most affected economies would be those with poor healthcare systems, as well as countries that rely heavily on tourism, international trade, and commodity exports. It added that those African countries with high debt burdens and high dependence on volatile international financial flows could also be greatly affected by the negative impact of the pandemic. The report stated, “The overall impact of the pandemic on socioeconomic outcomes remains uncertain, however. “It will depend crucially on the unfolding epidemiology of the virus, the extent of its impacts on demand and supply, the effectiveness of public policy responses, and the persistence of behavioral changes.” The pandemic had triggered a sudden uptick in inflation on the continent, in some cases by more than five per cent in the first quarter of 2020. This was caused by disruptions in the supply of food and energy, the bulk of which are imported. But for many other countries, the drastic fall in aggregate demand due to the lockdown and other containment measures had eased inflationary pressures, especially among non-resource-intensive economies. Overall, although headline inflation, which includes food and basic energy prices, had been projected to rise, core inflation might remain stable until demand picks up after the pandemic. But the AfDB report said that expansionary fiscal spending could double already high fiscal deficits It stated, “The pandemic and its economic consequences are expected to trigger expansionary fiscal policy responses across all categories of economies in Africa. “The implied expansionary fiscal stance would further widen fiscal deficits in the continent.” In the 2020 fiscal period, the bank said in the report that increases in budgetary outlays on COVID–19- related health spending, unemployment benefits, targeted wage subsidies and direct transfers, and tax cuts and deferrals would add to sovereign debt burdens. 