The Kano Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has arraigned four suspected fraudsters, Alhaji Musa Saleh; Shuaibu Muhammed, Garba Ado and Bala Mato, before Justice Lawan Wada of Kano State High Court, on eight- count charges bordering on criminal breach of trust and forgery. The accused persons allegedly conspired and diverted the sum of N71, 800,000 (Seventy One Million, Eight Hundred Thousand Naira Only), which was meant for the supply of rice and spaghetti to members of the Nigeria Union of Teachers, Gwarzo Branch, Kano State. It was further alleged that the accused persons fraudulently forged award letters addressed to the Managing Director, Muzaimus Imports and Exports Nigeria Limited, in an effort to execute their illicit act. One of the charge read: “That you Alhaji Musa Saleh, while acting as the coordinator of National Union of Teachers, Gwarzo; Bala Mato, Garba Ado and Shuaibu Mohammed sometime in July 2018, or thereabout, in Kano, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, did dishonestly convert to your personal use, the sum of N50,800,000 (Fifty Million Eight Hundred Thousand Naira, Only), value of 4000 bags of Thailand Rice, meant for distribution among the members of Nigeria Union of Teachers, Gwarzo Branch, from one Muzaimus Import and Export Limited and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 311 and punishable under Section 312 of the Penal Code Law.” The accused persons pleaded not guilty to the charges. In view of their pleas, prosecution counsel, Zarami Mohammed, requested for a hearing date. Counsel representing the 2nd accused person, Muratala Almi, applied for bail on behalf of his client. Justice Wada admitted the 2nd accused person to bail in the of sum N5, 000,000 (Five Million Naira, only), with two reliable sureties. The 3rd and 4th accused persons were also admitted to bail on the same conditions as the 2nd accused person. However, the court granted the 1st accused person, whose name appeared in all the eight-count charges, bail in the sum of N20,000,000 ( Twenty Million Naira, only) and two reliable sureties. The Judge ordered that all the sureties must be civil servants not below grade level 12. 