.. says Buhari’s govt has recovered N800bn looted funds THE Federal Government has challenged anyone who thinks its anti-corruption war is waning to dare the law and face the consequences. The Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, said this just as he disclosed that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration had recovered over N800bn looted funds. Mohammed, who particularly berated the opposition Peoples Democratic Party for calling for the resignation of the President, insisted that the administration’s anti-corruption war was alive and well. He spoke at a press conference in Abuja on Tuesday. He said naysayers had misinterpreted recent allegations of monumental corruption in the the Niger Delta Development Commission, Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund, and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, as a sign that the current administration was failing in its anti-corruption war. “Anyone who disagrees that the anti-corruption fight is alive and well is free to dare us,” he declared. The Minister said, “Many, especially naysayers, have misinterpreted these developments as a sign that the administration’s fight against corruption is waning. The main opposition PDP has latched on to the developments to call for the resignation of Mr President, a call that is nothing but infantile! “Let me state here and now that the fight against corruption, a cardinal programme of this administration, is alive and well. President Muhammadu Buhari, the African Union’s Anti-Corruption Champion, who also has an impeccable reputation globally, remains the driver of the fight and no one, not the PDP, under whose watch Nigeria was looted dry, can taint his image or reverse the gains of the fight.” He added, “This administration’s fight against corruption is as strong as ever, and we have the records to back up this claim. “This administration has recorded over 1,400 convictions, including high profile ones, and recovered funds in excess of N800bn, not to talk of forfeiture of ill-gotten properties. This is no mean feat.” 