We didn’t know he would attend – late Ajimobi’s media aide THE disagreement between the family of the late former Governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi, and officials of the current government in the state might have taken another dimension on Sunday, as the Deputy Governor, Rauf Olaniyan, was prevented from attending the eighth-day Fidau prayers of the late Governor. The Fidau, which was scheduled for 11am, was supposed to be a private affair as earlier announced by the family. Olaniyan was observed to have arrived a little after the scheduled time, in a convoy of about six cars but other vehicles in his convoy were stopped from accessing the road leading to Ajimobi’s house. The security men manning the gate reportedly said only the deputy governor’s vehicle could go in. But that was not the end. The deputy governor’s aides could not also gain access for their principal at the residence of the Ajimobis. The gate was locked, and the security men said the key was with the late governor’s widow, Mrs. Florence Ajimobi. In a swift reaction, however, late Ajimobi’s Media Aide, Bolaji Tunji, said the deputy governor did not inform the family that he would be attending the Fidau. According to him, the prayer had commenced before Olaniyan’s arrival. He said, “There is the need to clarify the believed presence of the Deputy Governor of Oyo State, Rauf Olaniyan, at the 8th day prayer of Senator Abiola Ajimobi, the immediate past Governor of Oyo State. “The Deputy Governor arrived after the prayer had started. The event was strictly a family affair. There was need to comply with the COVID-19 protocol as established by the National Centre for Decease Control on social distancing – not more than 30 people in a place and seats arranged, accordingly, after which the gate was shut.” Tunji added, “No one was aware that the Deputy Governor was coming as neither the advance team nor the protocol informed us. By the time we got to the gate to usher him into the sitting room, he had left. Everything happened within a spate of 10 minutes. “Through a serving Senator and a former Attorney-General, we tried to get in touch with him that it was not to slight him and he could sit in a private sitting room provided by the family. Unfortunately, he had left. We, however, apologise to his Excellency.” 