The National Insurance Commission has received applications for Insurance licence from four companies to conduct the business of insurance in the country. It said the applications would be processed in line with the statutory provisions of extant laws for the registration and licensing of insurance companies. The companies, according to the Commission, are Heirs Insurance Limited, which is planning to conduct General insurance businesses; Stanbic IBTC Insurance Limited; Heirs Life Assurance Limited; and Enterprise Life Assurance Company (Nigeria) Limited. Based on the application before NAICOM, the Managing Director of Heirs Insurance Limited is Olaniyi Stephen Onifade, while Tony Elumelu is the Chairman. Other members of the management team are
Japhet Duru- Executive Director (Technical/Operations); Adaobi Nwakuche, Kayode Lawal, Peter Ashade, Abdulqadir Jeli Bello( Independent
Director), Atinuke Kolade and Adim Jibunoh. For Stanbic IBTC Insurance Limited, Akinjide
Orimolade was listed as the Managing Director, while Yinka Sanni was named the Board Chairman. Other members of the management team are
Ms. Sakeenat Bakare (Executive Director, Business Development); Dunny Semwayo (Executive Director, Technical); and Mr. Godwin Wiggle (Independent Non-Executive Director). Others are: Mr. Ballama Manu (Non-Executive
Director); Mr. Eric Fajemisin (Non -Executive
Director); Mrs. Olanike (Nike) Bajomo (Non-Executive Director); Mr. Babalola Obilana (Non-Executive Director);Mrs. Titi Ogungbesan (Non-Executive Director); Mrs. Ifeyinwa Ann Momah (Independent Non-Executive Director) and Mrs. Eseoghene (‘Ese’) Nkadi (Company Secretary). For Heirs Life Assurance Limited, Abah Okoriko was named the Managing Director, while Abdulqadir Jeli Bello is the Chairman. The management team is also made up of Emmanuel Nnorom (Non-Executive
Director); Peter Ashade (Non-Executive Director); Adim Jibunoh (Non-Executive Director); Lawal Sani (Independent Director); and Wasiu Amao (Executive Director, Technical/Operations). The Commission also listed the Managing Director of Enterprise Life Assurance
Company (Nigeria) Limited as Funmilayo
Abimbola Omo, while Mrs. Amina Oyagbola is the Independent Director. Others are: Douglas Noel Lacey (Non-Executive Director); Kelvin Kofi Gyekye (Head of Finance); Salman Alhaji Salman (Company Secretary); Mr. Ogundeji Hezekoah Oluwafemi (Executive Director, Technical); Mr. Keli Gadzekpo (Chairman); Mr. Cleland Cofie Bruce (Non-Executive Director); Mr. Daniel Larbi-Tieku (Non-Executive Director). 