The Peoples Democratic Party’s Governorship Candidate in Ondo State, Eyitayo Jegede (SAN), has asked for the cooperation of fellow contestants in Wednesday’s primary election that held in Akure, the state’s capital. Jegede, in his acceptance speech after emerging victorious in the keenly contested poll, applauded the team spirit with which the exercise was conducted. He similarly thanked the entire PDP members for rallying supports that gave him the mandate to bear the flag of the party for the October 10 governorship election. “The PDP has once more demonstrated its panache in party unity, personal freedom and political advancement. All these qualities are made possible by the level of sophistry and love obtainable in the PDP family,” he noted. Jegede also extended hands of fellowship to other contestants in the race, saying his victory was a shared one, as the party had the onerous task of liberating Ondo State from “the suffocating government of the Rotimi Akeredolu-led APC government.” He said, “One thing must be taken into consideration: in any contest, somebody must be declared the winner. But in the real sense of the word, all contestants for the trophy at stake are winners. They are winners in the sense that, while a poster boy hoists the shield, that same shield is eventually shared by the entire club members. “For this reason, I cannot but appreciate the conviction of purpose with which my co- contestants pursued the dream of becoming the candidate of our great party in Ondo State, which is why I’m commending the participation of other aspirants and compatriots, as this victory is a collective one and the choice is of the family.” Jegede said, “I cannot do it alone. I will be drawing from the supports of my brothers (that is, co-contestants) in the task of liberating Ondo state from the shackles of the suffocating government of the Akeredolu-led APC government in Ondo State.” The governorship candidate, a former Commissioner for Justice and Attorney-General in the state, who bore the flag of the PDP in the 2016 governorship election, assured the people of the state of unprecedented turnaround, especially in social infrastructure, health, education and job creation, if elected. He particularly bemoaned the level of rot in health services and education sectors, saying Ondo State had never had it this bad. Jegede, shortly after emerging victorious in the primary poll at midnight, headed for the palace of the monarch of Akure, his native home, the Deji, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, to pay him homage. The PDP candidate had led in the primary election with 888 votes, ahead of the state’s deputy governor, Agboola Ajayi, who scored 657 votes. Others – Dr. Eddy Olafeso, a former Commissioner for Information in Ondo State scored 175 votes; Mr. Banjo Okunomo, a former council boss, 90 votes; Mr. Bode Ayorinde, 95 votes; and Mr. Olusola Ebiseni, a former Commissioner for the Environment, 29 votes. Senator Boluwaju Kunlere, who also contested in the election, scored 33 votes, while a tycoon, Mr. Godday Erewa, got 13 votes. 