The Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Agboola Ajayi, said, on Thursday, that he had taken the result of Wednesday’s primary election of the Peoples Democratic Party in good faith. Ajayi lost to Eyitayo Jegede, SAN, who was also the Governorship Candidate of the PDP in the last election. He polled 657 votes against Jegede’s 888 votes. Jegede has since cogratulated all aspirants and asked for their cooperation in ensuring that the ruling party is defeated in the October 10, 2020 governorship poll in Ondo State. In a statement by his Media Adviser, Allen Sowore, the deputy governor noted that he fought a battle with different forces. “The people have spoken, and we accept the outcome in good faith, knowing full well that it was a race against different forces,” he said. He said, “Following the outcome of the Primary election of our party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), held on 22nd July 2020, where Eyitayo Jegede, SAN, was elected winner, we wish to thank the good people of Ondo State for standing with us in the struggle to liberate our state. “The people have spoken, and we accept the outcome in good faith, knowing fully well that it was a race against different forces. We remain undaunted and resolute about our commitment to a people-oriented government against personalised democracy. “We wish the good people of Ondo State and the winner the best as we march on. For us, life goes on.” The deputy governor and Governor Rotimi Akeredolu had been at loggerheads for sometime, a situation that culminated in the deputy governor decamping from the All Progressives Congress to the PDP, a few weeks to the primary election. Observers say the Governor’s camp might have also worked against the emergence of Ajayi as PDP’s governorship candidate, though Jegede’s influence in the PDP cannot be contested. See the full result: Eddy Olafeso -175 Votes
Agboola Ajayi- 657 Votes
Banji Okunomo- 90 Votes
Bode Ayorinde – 95 Votes
Bolawaji Kunlere – 33 Votes
Ebiseni Olusola – 29 Votes
Erewa Godday – 13 Votes
Eyitayo Jegede – 888 Votes 