THE Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Agboola Ajayi, may dump the Peoples Democratic Party any moment from now, according to findings. The Deputy Governor, who lost the PDP primary election to Eyitayo Jegede, is said to be looking at Zenith Labour Party to actualise his aim of contesting for the October 10 governorship election in the state. Though Ajayi had, shortly after the primary election, said he was not leaving the PDP, he was, however, said to have held meetings with ZLP leaders, including a former Governor of Ondo State, Olusegun Mimiko, who is the National Leader of the party. Ajayi had dumped the All Progressives Congress for the PDP, shortly before the primary election, after a protracted face-off with Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. He refused to resign as deputy governor. His failed bid to clinch the governorship ticket of the PDP might have, however, informed his planned move, especially since he was not also favoured as Jegede’s running mate, analysts said. “The Deputy Governor is expected to make an official statement on the matter soon. But all plans must be fully in place to prevent any hitch this time,” a source close to his camp said in confidence. Meanwhile, Akeredolu has named Lucky Orimisan Aiyedatiwa as his running mate for the October 10 governorship election. Akeredolu said the leaders of the party made wide consultations to choose a suitable and qualified candidate. In arriving at the choice of Aiyedatiwa, the Governor said some important factors assisted the leaders of the party, including the decision to sever ties with mediocrity and treachery. While noting that the experiences of the immediate past must guide his decision, Akeredolu said a candidate with verifiable credentials and pedigree had been chosen to complete the last part of the gubernatorial race. Identifying loyalty and honesty as the twin virtues needed to serve at the moment, Akeredolu said the people expected a fresh and dignifying breather from the choking rot of the immediate past. The Governor said, “The general public has been treated to a cocktail of lies by those who recently disengaged from our administration, as well as those who were asked to step aside to allow those who displayed genuine passion to serve come on board. “Their hirelings are busy spreading falsehood and maligning personalities on social media. You must have heard or read about the comedy of errors enacted by some erstwhile principal officers of this administration.” 