THE new Commissioner of Police in Ogun State, Edward Ajogun, has warned officers of the State Police Command to refrain from any form of misconduct that will warrant stiff penalties against them. Ajogun reminded the officers that they were public servants, adding that in a democracy, they must always bear in mind that “the people own the police.” The new police boss stated this on Thursday during the handing over ceremony by the former
Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, held at the Police headquarters, Eleweran, Abeokuta. He said any act of misconduct would be dealt with seriously. The police boss assured the people of the state that the entire workforce would be driven and guarded tirelessly towards making Ogun State a better place to live and invest in. He vowed that the Police, under his command, would take the battle to the dens of kidnappers, cultists, drug dealers, sea pirates, and traffickers. “The command will however, be decisive in handling violent conducts, especially where lives and properties are threatened. Even in such situations, we will try as much as possible to counsel, warn and appeal to the persons involved to maintain the peace, disperse peacebly and seek alternative dispute resolution rather than engage in violence and destruction,” the new CP noted. He said, “I therefore have no doubt that I will once again enjoy your loyalty,  trust and dependability. Rest assured that I will continue to play the father figure role you have always associated with me, especially in the area of your welfare,  hoping that none of you will through misconduct force me to apply the stick in place of carrots. “Let me therefore quickly remind all policemen that they are public servants and that every member of the public deserves their respect, and that any act of misconduct will be viewed seriously.  I therefore appeal to the general public to reciprocate by giving back to policemen deserving respect and cooperation. After all,  what is good for the goose is also good for the gander.” The former police commissioner in the state earlier thanked Governor Dapo Abiodun for his support. He charged the officers and men to extend the same support given to him to the new CP. 