… as residents lament govt’s neglect Former Governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, on Sunday, went on an inspection tour of areas ravaged by the flood, occasioned by Saturday’s all-day rain in the ancient city. Amosun, who is the Senator representing Ogun Central Senatorial District in the Ninth National Assembly, had embarked on the inspection tour to assess the level of damage done to key infrastructure in the state, with a view to finding a solution to the damage. The rain, which started at about 2am on Saturday, lasted till evening, rendering many, who lived in flood-prone areas, like Ijeja, Amolaso, Oke Ijeun, and Oke Sokori, among others, homeless. Amosun visited all these areas, accompanied by top aides. Residents, who were seen trooping out in excitement that they had not been forgotten, when they sighted the former governor, urged the state government to address their plight. They thanked Amosun, amid praises, for identifying with them at such short notice. A food seller, who spoke to our correspondent, urged the state government to live up to its responsibilities and respond to serious issues promptly. “We cannot have two of Ibikunle Amosun. He has always had our interest at heart. You see that this thing happened yesterday, and today, he is here to see things for himself. We are happy as we are seeing him and we know he will do something about it,” the woman who identified herself as Mrs. Risi Adisa, said. Another resident of one of the flood-prone areas, who is an Okada rider, said it was a shame that the first person to visit the area was Amosun, adding that this had confirmed his place as the main force to reckon with in Ogun State. The man, who identified himself as Rafiu Olayinka, said, “It is not a joke. We love Amosun like anything. Forget about that election. We know how everything went. See him here now and the Governor has not even said anything. “He has always been like this. I know he can never leave us to suffer in Ogun State. And God will continue to bless him.” The residents also said the Ogun State Government must, as a matter of urgency, rehabilitate the affected areas, especially the Ijeja bridge. Its present situation, they said, posed a big threat to the lives of road users. Amosun also inspected the damage done to part of the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library fence, among others. 