A Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in Osun State, Oyintiloye Olatunbosun, has said that Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State is focused and committed to fulfilling his promises to the good people of the state. Oyintiloye, who is the immediate past lawmaker representing the Obokun State Constituency, told The Point that Oyetola’s pedigree and probity in resource management were assets, which had helped him in the governance of the state. He said the governor was focused, and would not yield to forces of distraction, at ensuring that residents of the state received the full dividends of democracy.
“Governor Oyetola is an ardent lover of the masses who always means well for the people of the state, which is the sole reason his policies, so far, have been people-oriented,” he said. Speaking about the policies and programmes of the government, he emphasised that Oyetola had touched all the critical sectors of the economy. Oyintiloye said, “Oyetola has rehabilitated and upgraded hundreds of Primary Health Centres, constructed many infrastructures, enhanced social investment programs for the vulnerable population, maintained prompt payment of salaries, improved the state security network through community policing. “He has also improved environmental degradation through periodic dredging of waterways, which has saved lives and property, among others. “Although, it is a general knowledge that there are a number of challenges, ranging from financial shortfalls to socioeconomic instability, occasioned by global economic downturn, but, in all, the state government still stays focused by not derailing on its resolve to engender good governance.” He maintained that the APC in the state was a united, happy and progressive party, which had not eschewed its ideology predicated on unity, loyalty and respect for leaders. He added that Oyetola was not in any way moved by the caprices and whims resulting from the preposterous and unscrupulous machinations of the opposition, orchestrated to deter, distract and disturb him on the track of the good governance he has drawn for long. Oyintiloye, therefore, urged the good people of the state to continue giving the Governor their unalloyed and unwavering support, needed to take the state to the pinnacle of development. 