…  says Caretaker Committee’s visit was to move APC forward The National leader of the All Progressive Congress, Bola Tinubu, has said that the party’s newly formed Caretaker Committee visited him in Lagos on Thursday to move the party forward. He spoke in his Ikoyi house, Lagos, after the visit, which was the committee’s first step since its inauguration last Thursday. Tinubu said, “We have no differences to be sorted out. We just had consultations and those consultations are about how our party, the All Progressives Congress, will continue to be a progressive party. “Politics without seeming ‘media crisis’ will be less interesting, depending on your (reporters’) persistent questioning. But the question is: are we committed to building this party and Nigeria? That is what we are all about. We’re steering the ship of our party and our nation in the right direction.” He added, “We lost one of our brothers, Isiaka Ajimobi. We discussed him, sent very sincere condolences to the family and looked at our party, the APC, which is the cure for aches and pains. “We’ll apply the ingredients of APC to what appears to be pains in our party so we can heal. Sincerely, we have trust and respect for the character of the chairman of the caretaker committee. We’re willing to support him to succeed for the party to continue its crusade of progressive governance in the country.” On whether the visit was a reconciliatory move, the APC leader said, “Who was fighting who?  The caretaker committee is on consultation. We have never been divided. In politics, there can be disagreements. There are instances where you disagree but it doesn’t mean that you cannot discuss it, and be a good example in leadership and politics.” On his part, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said, “I am a good host. I am happy to have my colleagues here. It has been a very fruitful discussion we had here this evening.” The Caretaker Committee Chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State, had led the delegation to Tinubu’s residence. 