AS the world celebrates the Eid-el-Kabir, the Federal Inland Revenue Service has joined the rest of the country to felicitate with Muslims nationwide. In the spirit of the festivities and in addition to earlier palliative measures rolled out by the Service to cushion the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on taxpayers, the FIRS has extended the deadline for filing of returns in a number of tax categories. The Executive Chairman, FIRS, Muhammad Nami, confirmed this in a public notice he personally signed. He said, being a responsible agency of government, the Service would continue to identify with the challenges of the times, which the taxpayers were going through. The FIRS boss said that as a way of cushioning the impact of the pandemic on tax payers, the Service had agreed to grant another one-week extension, from the July 31, 2020 deadline for Companies with December accounting year end to file their Year 2020 annual Income Tax Returns. The notice said, “The Management of Federal Inland Revenue Service wishes to felicitate with Nigerians on this occasion of the Eid-el-Kabir celebration. “We thank the Almighty God for sparing our lives to witness yet another Sallah festival, especially in this year that has been very difficult for individuals and businesses. Nonetheless, the Service will continue to identify with the challenges of the times, which the taxpayers are going through. “In furtherance of this, and, in addition to a number of COVID-19 palliatives already in place, as well as in the spirit of this Eid celebration, we hereby grant a further one-week extension from the 31st July 2020 deadline for Companies with December accounting year end to file their Year 2020 annual Income Tax Returns.” The notice added, “For the purpose of clarity, companies that fall within this category will not be penalised for late submission, if they file their Year 2020 Income Tax Returns within the grace period, that is, 1st August 2020 to 7th August 2020 as herein granted. “In a similar vein, the one-week grace period is extended to regular monthly obligations that become due at the end of July 2020, for example, Petroleum Profits Tax instalmental Payment, Withholding Tax and Value Added Tax Returns.” Nami said the FIRS would continue to respond proactively to the realities of these times, towards easing the burden of esteemed taxpayers. 