The Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Agboola Ajayi, has given Governor Rotimi Akeredolu 21 days ultimatum to hand over the affairs of the state to him as acting governor. He said in a statement on Saturday that Akeredolu’s refusal to transmit power in spite of his being incapacitated and in isolation, was a direct assault on the provisions of the Constitution, which he swore to uphold. The governor had, through his Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, said he would not hand over governance to Ajayi. The Governor had announced that he tested positive for COVID-19 about a week ago, saying that he was going into isolation. But he insisted that he would not hand over to his deputy. The two have been at loggerheads with the battle getting to a fever pitch when Ajayi decamped from the All Progressives Congress to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party. The Commissioner had said aside from the loss of trust and alleged treachery on the part of the Deputy Governor, governance was not grounded as Akeredolu remained active in the line of duty. The deputy governor’s media aide, Allen Sowore, however, maintained that Akeredolu was partially incapacitated and had no choice than to hand over to Ajayi. He said, “Ordinarily, one expects Mr Governor to bring to bear on governance his background as a lawyer and Senior Advocate of Nigeria. “But it is rather surprising and worrisome that the Governor has chosen the part of perversion of justice, by allowing his close aides to go astray in a matter of constitutionality.” Sowore added, “Section 190 (2) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) is apposite in the prevailing constitutional aberration in Ondo State. On our part, we will continue to pray fervently for Mr Governor’s quickest recovery… “Governor Akeredolu’s deliberate mounting of obstacles to smooth running of government machinery while he is in self-isolation as a result of the fact that he has been tested positive for the COVID-19 privileges the hypocritical nature of Ondo State government’s war against the ravaging pandemic.” 