GOVERNOR Gboyega Oyetola of Osun State has described the death of elder statesman and leader of the Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere, Pa Ayo Fasanmi, as a big loss to, not only the Yoruba race, but also Nigeria as a whole. He said the late Pa Fasammi would be greatly missed and remembered for his love for and service to Nigeria and its people. Oyetola, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, commiserated with Pa Fasanmi’s family, the Afenifere Group, the entire Yoruba race and Nigerians over the loss. The governor said Pa Fasanmi was a great man of honour, progressive politician, and strong advocate of good governance, democratic values and ideals. He further said the late Afenifere leader was a die-hard Awoist who demonstrated this by projecting the principles and legacies of the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo. The Governor described him as one of the  Encyclopaedias of Progressivism and a loyal and dedicated practitioner of its ideals, adding that every 30 minutes at Pa Fasanmi’s feet was worth more than reading 10 books on politics. “Baba’s death is a big loss not only to his family but also to the Yoruba race and Nigeria at large. He will be remembered for his unending love for Nigeria and selfless service to the country and its people. He was always concerned about the welfare of the masses. “He was an astute politician and elder statesman, who was ever seeking to enrich and expand the frontiers of socio-political knowledge, encourage mass political participation, offer selfless service and replicated himself in his teeming followers. “I knew Baba Fasanmi for many years, even before my foray into politics. I saw in him a trained pharmacist, who faithfully transferred the ideals of service to humanity, which his training entails into the larger business of politics. “Through his noble efforts in diverse political struggles, agitation for good governance, and persistent resistance to military rule, bad governments, and administrations, Pa Fasanmi became a beacon of hope and a pillar of light and encouragement to the younger generation of politicians and public administrators.” Oyetola prayed God Almighty to grant the soul of Pa Fasanmi eternal rest and give his family the strength to bear his demise. 