THE Edo State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress has accused Governor Godwin Obaseki of the Peoples Democratic Party of plotting to attack and detain APC members and leaders ahead of the September 19, 2020 Governorship election in the state. The Vice-Chairman, Media and Publicity Committee of the APC National Campaign Council, Patrick Obahiagbon, made this accusation in a press conference on Sunday. He said a plan had been hatched by the Edo State Government to detain a former Governor of the State, Adams Oshiomhole, over trumped-up charges on the eve of the election, in addition to alleged plots to set fire on the farm of billionaire businessman, Hosa Okunbo. Obahiagbon blamed Obaseki and the PDP for the violence that broke out on Saturday in Benin City, where many residents sustained gunshot wounds and were hospitalised. He accused the Governor of unleashing conscripted thugs and cultists on protesters who he claimed had expressed their rejection of him and his alleged “invitation of tax-collectors who are feasting on the state’s treasury.” Obahiagbon said, “Worse still, information has also reached us from sources in Obaseki’s government who are but disillusioned with his nefarious acts, that the governor has plotted and perfected a criminally appalling initiative, aimed at subverting the will of the people. “On the back of conscripting renowned cultists and providing them official cover and funding for wanton violence under the guise of aides appointments, Mr. Godwin Obaseki is planning to use COVID-19 as a ruse to neuter grassroots leaders of our party, the APC, on the eve of the gubernatorial election by abducting and detaining them in isolation centers—this way, disenfranchising them and forestalling the political force they would deliver in pursuant of APC’s victory.” He added, “Having pellucidly read the handwriting on the wall that he faces a monumental defeat and an electoral opprobrium on the 19th of September, Obaseki aims to illegally strike what he deems the head and important political leaders of our party with the hopes of subverting the election. “Names of prominent leaders of the APC have been compiled to be dealt with, intimidated, harassed, terrorised, physically assaulted, and lacerated by state-sponsored goons.” The APC chieftain condemned the “anomalies and acts of political desperadoism” as “direct affronts on the country’s constitution and the rule of law” while also appealing to the Police, INEC, and other relevant stakeholders to prevail on the Governor and ensure that he allows the rule of law and a level democratic playing field to hold supreme between now and the end of the Edo governorship elections. 