… Raids community, arrests 15 people No fewer than 15 people were arrested in a raid carried out by police operatives at Ojodu Abiodun Community in Ogun State, after a woman was found dead in her room. The incident, which occurred at Iboko Community, near Akute in Ogun State, led to the arrest of neighbours and other suspects in the area. The deceased, who was fondly called Iya Ileja, was found dead in her room three days after the neighbours had been raising the alarm that the whole house was stinking. The woman, who lived with her only son, was said to have been alone in the house before the incident happened. Sources who spoke with our correspondent said her decomposed body was found in the room when her neighbours forced her door open to call her attention to the fact that the house had been smelling for three days. Alagbe Rasak, a resident of the community, told our correspondent that the deceased went about the area healthy, a few days to her death. “I still saw her a few days ago with sound health. I was surprised when I was told about what happened. Unfortunately, her only son was not with her because he had travelled to see some relatives,” he said. He said the Police later came to arrest people in the house and the area when the case was reported to them. According to him, some landlords in the area had told the Police that a woman was killed in her room, thereby prompting the Police to invade the area and arrest people. Another resident of the community, Saheed Olawale, said the arrested people bailed themselves from police custody with N10,000 each. “We had to flee our houses when the policemen came to the community over the matter. My brother and I took to our heels when a friend called that about eight people had already been arrested. One of our friends who was also arrested was later bailed with N10,000 like every other person that was arrested,” he said. Meanwhile, our correspondent found that the deceased’s house was locked when he visited. It was learnt that the Police had instructed that the house should be locked, pending when investigation would be concluded on the matter. A police officer, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to our correspondent, said, “The woman had been deposited at the morgue while family members had been contacted. Investigation is ongoing to know the mystery behind the woman’s death.” Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, promised to get back to our correspondent on the matter when contacted. 