THE Federal Government has inaugurated a Campaign Strategy team for the Nigerian former Minister of Finance, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, who is vying for the post of the next Director-General of the World Trade Organisation. The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, inaugurated the team in Abuja. He said the setting up of a Campaign Strategy team was key in ensuring that the Nigerian candidate emerged as the Director-General of the WTO. The Minister noted that the decision of President Muhammadu Buhari to nominate Okonjo-Iweala as Nigeria’s candidate for the position of WTO DG was taken in good faith. He said this was vital, given the overriding consideration of the need to host Africa’s chance and for the promotion of gender mainstreaming at the world’s top trade post. He expressed optimism that the ex-minister of finance would emerge as the next Director-General of WTO, based on her capabilities and wealth of experience at the highest level of the World Bank as a Development Economist, Diplomat and one of Africa’s most trusted technocrats. According to Adebayo, an eminently qualified candidate in the position of Okonjo-Iweala, with proven leadership, and who is a bold reformer, skillful negotiator with abilities to broker numerous agreements that would promote fair trade, should be selected for the position. “I am confident that Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala possesses the qualities to lead the most important global multilateral body,” he said. He charged the team to develop a winning strategy for the candidate and also called on stakeholders, media, public, private and trading partners to give the necessary support that the Nigerian candidate required to emerge. “My belief is that the team will intensify its level of dedication over time to ensure that we achieve success,” he stated. The Minister of State, Amb. Mariam Yalwaji Katagum, who is the Team Leader of the Campaign Strategy Team, gave an assurance of the full commitment of members of the team to deliver on the mandate. “We must all get to work as a team in the most strategic and professional manner to deliver on this important assignment in line with the Terms of Reference,” she stated. Katagum also expressed confidence that the former finance minister would emerge as the next DG of the WTO, considering her pedigree and commitment in ensuring sustainable development and economic growth, not only for Africa, but the world at large. The Campaign Strategy Team comprises officials of the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Ministry of Foreign Affairs; Representatives of the Office of the Chief of Staff to the President, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Federal Ministry of Finance, Nigerian Ambassador to ECOWAS and African Union as well as Geneva-based officials. 