Former Deputy National Chairman and Board of Trustee member of the Peoples Democratic Party, Chief Olabode George, has called on the newly appointed South West Caretaker Committee of the party to be an impartial role model, who must be seen to be guided by fairness, truth, and sincerity. George, who made this known while hosting the Caretaker Committee in Lagos on Thursday, also urged members to seize the opportunity to rectify the wrongs in the party. He congratulated the members of the committee on their appointments and the opportunity given to them by the leaders and elders of the party to midwife a new South West Zonal Executive Committee. He urged them to rectify the wrongs, heal the wounds and bring peace and amity to the PDP in the South West. “To serve in this very crucial role, you have apparently earned the trust of all our leaders and elders. The challenge given to you is of great responsibility and seriousness,” George said. He also used the occasion to appreciate what he called  the selfless leadership of Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State,  saying, “He has demonstrated tremendous humility, mature leadership and a genuine resolve to bring peace to our party.” “Let us all support and strengthen Governor Makinde by our collective insistence on ensuring that truth, equity, fairness, justice, tolerance and goodwill prevail in all our undertakings,” George said. Responding on behalf of the committee, its chairman, Dayo Ogungbemi, said they had come to visit George to seek his guidance and support in the task placed in their hands. He commended the leadership spirit of George, saying he remained a strong pillar of the party, not only in the South West, but also in the country as a whole. He pleaded with him to continually remember them in his prayers, while he also noted that the committee would be willing to draw from his vast experience in order to succeed in the task ahead. Lagos PDP leaders in attendance included member of BoT, Prince Akintoye, Chief Mrs Onikepo Oshodi, Chief Mrs Aduke Maina, Otunba Okanlawon, Senator Kofoworola Bucknor-Akerele, Hon. Tanwa Olusi, Hon. Rahmon Owokoniran, Hon. Willy Akinlude, Barrister Akinsanya, Barrister Onile  Ere, Dr Dominic, Elder Agbaje John, Prince Uthman Shodipe-Dosunmu,  Hon. Deji Wellington and the State Secretary, Prince Muiz Dosunmu. 