FORMER Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party and Leader of a Pan-Lagos indigenes association, Omo Eko Pataki Forum, Chief Olabode George, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to re-open the investigation of the brutal murder of popular Lagos politician, Funsho Williams. In a statement he personally signed and released to the media on Sunday, titled “Funso Williams: Omoluabi Eko still waiting for justice”, George said the President had done the right thing by re-opening the investigation of the murder of Chief Bola Ige, but prevailed on him to make history by nailing the “evil characters” behind the murder of Williams. “He (Buhari) will be greatly enhanced in historical reckoning and signification if his administration is attested as being the one that finally nailed the
evil characters hiding at plain sight who murdered Funsho Williams,” George said. He stressed that he was particularly passionate about the deceased, who many adorably called Captain. The PDP chieftain said, “He was reserved and humble. He was gentle but reflective with sharp analytical convictions. There was always a certain piety about him, an
effective calibration in self-effacing innocence. He meant no arm to anyone. But he was firm, resolved, dedicated to the righteous path. “It has been 14 years now when a terrible dark cloud fell upon the Lagosian entity and upon all lovers of freedom. It was really a very sad day on that horrific July 27, 2006 as the blood soaked body of Engineer Funsho Williams was discovered in his Dolphin residence in Ikoyi. “With the murder of Funsho Williams, who stood at the threshold of triumphing at the general election, a great dream was shattered. The hopes
of millions of Lagosians who were hearkening to be rescued from what was then building up as a gradual servitude of the Lagosian natives, was
dashed.” George argued that those who killed Funsho Williams might have killed a man, but added that they had not succeeded in killing his dream of rescuing and salvaging the society. While noting that like minds would continue where Williams stopped, George said, “On this mournful occasion when the wounds are still fresh, we urge those who use Funsho Williams’ name to push patently untidy, undignified, alleged
palliatives agenda to desist forthwith. This demeans what Funsho Williams represented. It is a mockery of a great dream and a great man. It is
self-serving and hideous. “We cry out for justice now. We cry out that the long reaches of the law should be animated to fish out those who murdered Funsho Williams so that they can pay the supreme price. We will  never forget him. We will never compromise on ensuring that this beloved son of Lagos gets a deserved justice. “On our part as Ọmọ Eko Pataki, we will not rest. We will not slumber nor sleep until justice prevails over evil. This is our mission. This is our
purpose.” 