The Senior Special Assistant to the Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, on Media and Publicity, Ojo Oyewamide, has said that the traditional rulers in the state have thrown their weights behind the governor for the October 2020 governorship election because of his commendable performance in the last four years. Speaking with The Point, Oyewamide explained that the traditional rulers put Akeredolu on a royal scale and gave him an excellent rating. He recalled the narration given by the Chairman of the Ondo Council of Obas, Oba Akinruntan, who commended the governor for the construction of the Ore flyover. He said the first class traditional ruler had said that he had been scared to pass through that road since the day he met 18 people dead in an accident on that road, but that he was grateful to Akeredolu for turning that around. Oyewamide said, “The Ondo State stretch of the Benin-Shagamu expressway used to be notorious for incessant auto crashes and gridlocks. For years, commuting on that portion of the road was a nightmarish experience. “Several people had lost either their lives, limbs or man hours at that portion of the road. The problem was attributed to the complex nature of the Ore intersection. But with the flyover, the story has changed. It has tamed the thirst of the road for blood,” Oyewamide said. He told The Point that the state’s traditional rulers’ recent endorsement of Akeredolu for a second term was heart warming and would ginger him to do more during his second term. He said, “Expectedly, the endorsement drew adverse criticisms from certain quarters. Some scoffed at it, saying it lacked electoral value. ‘Traditional rulers don’t vote,’ they claimed. But if Kabiyesis don’t vote as argued by these fellows, why did the royal approval become a source of pain for them? “The blind critics need some education here. The royal pat on the back of Governor Akeredolu has its greatest value in the encouragement it conveys. With it, the governor will be encouraged to do more good for the people of the state. Such an approval from critical stakeholders like Kabiyesis gladdens the heart. It gives emotional satisfaction and exposes the mischief of those who are fond of denying the obvious. ‘It is time for us all to stand and cheer for the doer, the achiever – the one who recognises the challenges and does something about it,’ said Vince Lombardi. That was exactly what the traditional rulers did. They love their subjects and want the best for them. So, they must encourage the governor to do more.” According to the spokesperson, there were also those who wrongly believed that the endorsement was procured. “This is a big insult to the crowns. Our Obas only saw the truth and said it. The endorsement of Arakunrin Akeredolu stemmed from the bottom of their hearts,” he argued. He said, “Also, Governor Akeredolu is not known for deploying the resources of the state for selfish ends. The remarkable achievements of his government are as a result of the prudent management of the little resources of the state. “Is it not preposterous of the critics to expect the monarchs to gloss over the various monumental achievements of the Akeredolu government? They expected the traditional rulers to ignore the flyover that is now saving the lives of their subjects. They expected the Kabiyesis to take their eyes away from the industrial revolution taking place at the Ondo-Linyi Industrial Hub, Ore.” Oyewamide noted that the government was making efforts to ensure that the state had a seaport, saying that all necessary things had been done to achieve it. He said, “The seaport is the future of Ondo State. This is what the traditional rulers in the coastal region of the state are aware of. Did anyone expect the monarchs to pretend not to be aware of this great thing in the offing? “Did anybody expect the Kabiyesis to deny the massive road projects all over the state? Did they expect the Akoko Obas not to appreciate the leveling and reconstruction of Oke Alabojuto road? Did they want the monarchs to say the reconstruction of Oke Oka road meant nothing to them and their subjects? In the past, the two roads were responsible for the death of many compatriots.” According to the spokesperson, schools in the Sunshine state now look good and are conducive for teaching and learning. He said, “Today, the state boasts of two teaching hospitals. The Mother and Child hospitals have been increased from two to seven, cutting across all the three senatorial districts. Governor Akeredolu is sweating profusely for the state. And the monarchs know this. Did any critic expect them to ignore all the development strides achieved by the government? “The Kabiyesis know the kind of politics being played in the country. It is adversarial. Another government may come and discontinue the life-changing programmes and projects of the Akeredolu government. That’s why the Obas want continuity. The continuity of good work.” 