… says ‘he was passionate about peace and security in Africa’ FORMER President Olusegun Obasanjo has condoled with the President of Tanzania, John Magufuli, over the death of the country’s former president, Benjamin Mkapa. Mkapa died on Thursday at the age of 81. Obasanjo, who said the late Mkapa was a brother and friend, described him as a man of principle and commitment, who embodied the virtues of truth, justice and humility. In a condolence letter, a copy of which was made available to newsmen in Abeokuta, Ogun State, through his Media Aide, Kehinde Akinyemi, on Friday, Obasanjo emphasised that Mkapa would be missed for his exemplary leadership across Africa. He said, “President Mkapa will be missed for his exemplary leadership across Africa but particularly for his contribution to nation-building in the United Republic of Tanzania where he served as the third President of the country from 1995 to 2005. “Since I worked closely with Benjamin Mkapa as Tanzania’s High Commissioner to Nigeria when I was military Head of State, I have found him as a man of principle and commitment who embodied the virtues of truth, justice, discipline, hard work, and humility. He was a good man, a good Tanzanian, and a good African. We will all miss him. “As you know, I worked very closely with our departed brother for over twenty years. While we were both in office as Presidents of our respective countries, I found in him a reliable friend, ally and confidant. We worked together under the auspices of AU and NEPAD with constructive contributions at the various fora in our joint efforts at charting a new future for Africa particularly in the areas of HIV/AIDS, launching of the ILO report on “A Fair Globalisation: Creating Opportunities for All”, the South Centre, World Commission on the Social Dimension of Globalisation, among others. “He was passionate about peace and security in the Great Lakes Region where we also worked together as well as leadership issues in Africa. “Upon our exit from Presidency, I frequently called on him for support and advice on issues of interest to Africa. He was always welcoming, accommodating and he offered wise counsel with an open, charitable, and progressive heart. “I join the Government and the people of Tanzania as well as millions of others around the world in mourning a man, who dedicated his life to the growth and development of Tanzania, his country, in particular, and Africa as a whole.” 