AS critics continue to give the former Speaker of the House of Representatives. Yakubu Dogara, knocks for decamping to the All Progressives Congress, barely two years after he dumped the party for the Peoples Democratic party, there are fresh insinuations that Dogara may be eyeing the Number One seat in Nigeria. The Chairman, Board of Trustees of the PDP, Senator Walid Jubrin, said in a statement on Monday, that Dogara had other underground motives for joining the APC, aside from what he offered to the public. “I am beginning to suspect that he has a plan of becoming President or Vice President in 2023 on the platform of the APC, which he thought he could never archive in the PDP,” he said. According to him, there are many dispute resolution channels the former speaker could have explored in the PDP, but he never tabled any complaint before him as BoT Chairman. He said, “I have read with mixed feelings the reasons given by the former Speaker for defecting to the APC.
I am equally sorry for Dogara for not exploring available channels of dispute resolution in the party’s constitution before defecting to the ruling party. “I became more disturbed considering Dogara’s position as a former Speaker and a member of the BoT of the PDP. With his position as a member of the BoT, Mr Dogara never laid any complaints to me as the chairman of BoT, which is the highest advisory organ of the party and remained the conscience of the party.” The BoT Chairman added, “Considering the reasons he gave for his actions, one is compelled to believe that Mr Dogara has other strong reasons for leaving the PDP. “I am beginning to suspect that the former Speaker has underground motives for joining the APC. I am beginning to suspect that he has a plan of becoming President or Vice President in 2023 on the platform of the APC, which he thought he could never archive in the PDP. “I want to assure the former Speaker that the PDP shall continue to be very strong and united and its doors will remain open to all Nigerians. As Chairman of the BoT, I urge all members of the party to remain calm and strong as the BoT will continue to play its role as the conscience of the party, as contained in its constitution.” The Interim National Chairman of the APC, Governor Malla Mai Buni of Yobe State, had announced Dogara’s defection shortly after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House. Dogara had also said in his resignation letter that he left the PDP in order to keep faith with his principle of fighting for good governance, while raising many integrity-related questions against the Governor of Bauchi State. 