… Markets shut, commercial activities paralysed in Auchi A former Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, Zakawanu Garuba, is dead. Garuba died in the early hours of Saturday 18th July, 2020, at an Abuja hospital. He was a two-time Edo lawmaker and a Peoples Democratic Party Speaker during the Osariemen Osunbor and Adams Oshiomhole administrations in Edo State. Reliable sources told our correspondent that the late lawmaker had been down with diabetes and had also tested positive for coronavirus since last week, which worsened his health situation. A family member, Alkeh Baba, however, told our correspondent that Garuba died in the early hours of Saturday, after a brief illness related to COVID-19 complications. Since the news filtered into Auchi in the early hours of Saturday, most of the markets have been closed, while commercial activities in the ever busy Polytechnic town have remained paralysed. His country home in Auchi is crowded with mourners, though his immediate family are not yet back from Abuja. Other family members are on ground receiving people, including the Palace of the Otaru of Auchi. After his exit from legislative duty, Zakawanu Garuba was appointed into the Board of the Securities and Exchange Commission to serve as the Executive Commissioner, Finance and Administration (now known as the corporate services directorate of the commission). TRIBUTES, REACTIONS Rt. Hon Samson Osagie, Former minority whip, House of Representatives and a former colleague of late Garuba at the Edo State House of Assembly, said, “This is a difficult news to believe, yet it is true. Oh death why art thou unmerciful? Why art thou unkind? How do we cope with your sting when  good men are snatched by you without batting an eyelid. “Zaks, you can’t be gone like that without any opportunity to say goodbye. Your tremendous respect for friendship cannot just be lost with us without tears. Its painful to imagine that you will be gone this early.  Oh death Why Zakawanu? May your soul rest in peace. Amen
Hon Zakawanu Garuba was a good natured man full of compassion and operates with the highest moral standards. We shall surely miss him.” For John Ewah, this is one death too many.
“Our friend, brother, comrade, boss and former Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly; Rt Hon Zakawanu Garuba has gone to be with the Lord. He passed on this morning.
May Almighty Allah forgive his sins and grant him Aljanat Firdaus. This is one death too many to bear,” he said. Pascal  Eleta said, “The Irroko is down. Why so soon? What a great loss to the entire Auchi sacred kingdom! Rest in peace my mentor, my father, my everything. My great leader, you will forever remain in our hearts.” The former lawmaker, who holds the traditional titles of Oshiote of Auchi Kingdom and Okumagbe of Uzaire, would have turned 55 on August 23. Born on 23 August 1965, in Akpekpe community, Auchi, in Etsako West Local Government Area of the state, the late Garuba studied Law at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State and was called to Bar in 1990. He was elected into the Edo State House of Assembly in 2003, on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, and became the Speaker of the House in 2007. Garuba was appointed into the Board of the Securities and Exchange Commission as the Executive Commissioner, Finance and Administration (now known as the corporate services directorate). 