THE Niger Delta Development Commission said, on Monday, that its Acting Managing Director, Kemebradikumo Pondei, slumped while being interrogated by lawmakers because he refused to obey his doctors’ advice on the need for him to rest. The NDDC said in a statement titled, “Prof Pondei has been ill”, signed by the Director, Corporate Affairs in the Commission, Charles Obi Odili, that Pondei had been ill for two weeks before the hearing. The Acting MD had collapsed while attending to a barrage of what appeared to be difficult questions by members of the House Committee investigating alleged corruption in the NDDC. He was revived and rushed out of the venue of the hearing while the sitting was adjourned for about 30 minutes. The NDDC’s statement said, “The Acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, Prof Kemebradikumo Pondei, collapsed today (Monday) at the public hearing by the House of Representatives Committee on NDDC. “The Commission wishes to disclose that Prof Pondei, has been ill for the past two weeks. This morning, his condition deteriorated, and his doctors advised against attending the hearing. However, he ignored his doctors’ advice because of the realisation that his traducers will use his absence at the hearing to soil his name and reputation. He thought he could make it through the hearing and take care of his health later. As it turned out, his doctors were right. Prof Pondei is in a stable condition at a clinic in Abuja.” The Commission faulted the process of the hearing, saying it was wrong to hold Pondei liable for errors made before he became Acting MD. It said, “Prof Prondei became Ag Managing Director of NDDC on February 20, 2020. By May 5, the two arms of the National Assembly ordered a probe of his tenure of exactly 74 days at the time, two-third of which was spent under COVID-19 lockdown conditions. “Prof Pondei, as the Managing Director of the Commission, has an official duty to answer for the activities of the Commission like what happened between 2008 – 2012 which is the subject of another hearing based on the auditor general’s report for the period. “It would, however, be unfair to hold him personally liable for acts which took place when he was not the head of the Commission. “When the two arms of the National Assembly called for a probe, it was over a missing N40 billion. The Commission took the rare step of publishing all payments made by it under Prof Pondei. No organisation in Nigeria, public or private has ever got to that level of transparency in our national history. “As this publication undermined the claims of his accusers, the subject of the public hearing changed to ‘financial recklessness’. While this might appear insignificant, it amounted to changing the goalposts to smear a clean man. While misappropriation of N40 billion is a matter demanding objective proof, the question of financial recklessness is one open to subjective judgement.” While noting that everyone must answer for his role in the misappropriation of NDDC’S funds, the statement said, “The Commission is delighted that Hon Olubunmi Ojo, the Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on NDDC has recused himself from the hearing. At the end of the day, everyone has to answer for his role in the misappropriation of the resources of the Commission. “It is this search for answers that led President Muhammadu Buhari, on the request of the nine governors of the region, to institute a forensic audit to probe what happened to the resources of the Commission from 2001 to date. “The Prof Pondei led IMC has committed to the success of that exercise. While we thought there will be a fightback by those who dipped their hands in the cookie’s jar, we never expected this level of boldness and malevolent aggression as witnessed by accusers at the hearing and their paid agents through all the media platforms. “The Commission is participating at the hearing, even though it thinks that seeing to the conclusion of the forensic audit will serve the future of the Commission and the Niger Delta region more than the probe of 74 days of activities.” 