 …awards scholarships to 60 indigent students  As part of the efforts to reposition the Peoples Democratic Party in Ogun State and compensate loyal party members, the Omo-Ilu Foundation run by Senator Buruji Kashamu, has concluded plans to distribute over 250 vehicles to selected members of the major opposition party in the state. The Foundation will also award scholarships to 60 indigent students from the three senatorial districts in Ogun State. Ogun State PDP Chairman, Mr. Samson Bamgbose, disclosed these in a statement on Tuesday in Abeokuta. Bamgbose stated that the over 250 vehicles would be released to the beneficiaries in a few weeks’ time as part of the plans to empower the party members. The state PDP chairman said that the over 250 vehicles’ and 60 scholarships’ largesse were the outcomes of a strategic meeting between party officials and the Omo-Ilu Foundation, whose long-term and continuous support for the party in the state has become legendary. He added that the gesture was the Foundation’s way of supporting and repositioning the PDP in Ogun State for future electoral fortunes and victories. Bamgbose disclosed that the party had already received from the Omo-Ilu Foundation 25 units of the vehicles, including Sport Utility Vehicles (SUVs), buses and cars that could be used by the various beneficiaries for both private and commercial purposes. According to the statement, “I am happy to inform our teeming members and the general public that our goodwill has started attracting the support and cooperation of public-spirited individuals and institutions. “In the days ahead, we shall begin to unveil them. But permit me to inform you that one of such strategic partnerships is the one that we have just concluded with the Omo-Ilu Foundation. “At the end of a strategic meeting between the officials of the PDP and the Foundation, the Foundation unveiled its plans to support and reposition the PDP in Ogun State through various multi-million Naira empowerment initiatives. As a first step, Omoilu Foundation will support our party members with the donation of 25 vehicles comprising Sport Utility Vehicles (SUVs), buses and cars, which can be used for both private and commercial purposes. The foundation said it has an ambitious plan to donate 250 units of vehicles this year and we are lucky to have secured 25 units of various brands for our members. “Also, working with the Bamgbose-led Ogun State PDP, the Foundation has announced plans to award 20 scholarships to indigent youths and students in each of the three Senatorial Districts of the state; thus, bringing the total number of youths and students to be empowered to 60.” The state PDP chairman also urged interested youths and students to submit their applications for the scholarships, either at the state party Secretariat on IBB Boulevard, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta or Omo-Ilu Foundation Headquarters, beside Abusi Edumare Academy, Ijebu-Igbo, Ogun State. “This is just the beginning; more goodies are in the offing. As we make progress, every indigene of our beloved Ogun State will feel the impact of the new PDP under our leadership. We would show them that we can play decent politics with the milk of human kindness,” he added. Omoilu Foundation, run by Senator Kashamu, is reputed for its grassroots approach to empowerment and wealth redistribution.  The Foundation was registered in 2009. Over the years, the Foundation has assisted thousands of Nigerians within Ogun State and beyond through its various interventions in education, healthcare, finance as well as the provision of mobility aids, among others. 