… Accuse state govt of being evasive  Doctors in Ogun State have, again, accused the Governor Dapo Abiodun-led government of neglecting the welfare of health workers in the state. The doctors added that the report that they had signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the state government, over an earlier three-day warning strike, was not true. A statement, jointly signed by the President of Association of Resident Doctors, Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Popoola Abiodun; and Secretary, Osundara Adewale; said the Governor was being misled to think an MoU was signed. The doctors said, “When the government decided to brush aside our calls, we were forced to declare a three-day warning strike. Only then was a meeting called and all the engagements have not shown any commitment to address the fundamental demand. “As it stands, some people are even misleading the governor by telling him we signed an MOU. Nothing can be far from the truth than this. Up till now, all we have heard is that our hazard allowance will be increased by 300 per cent. In plain terms, this is only an increment of N15,000.” They added, “We have, therefore, resolved to stay at home on weekends and discharge our duties only during the working days of the week because of our concern for the people in these trying times. “Our members working directly in the COVID–19 treatment centre are left to discharge their duty uninterrupted within this waiting time after which we would reappraise and determine what next.” The association also noted that members working in the COVID–19 treatment centre had not been paid their April allowance, “let alone having their May allowance. Yet, they have not been slothful in their duty.” “Our wait is now one week gone but up till now, the government has been evasive. Perpetually, we have also been having our salaries delayed for no good reason. We had our salaries in April paid in the middle of May when other workers in the state were paid in April,” the doctors lamented. “Other workers in the state have been paid their May Salaries as of 21st of May, 2020 but here we are still expecting the miracle. For the records, ARD OOUTH has not received any real commitment on our issues from the government and we have not signed any form of MOU with them,” they added. 