Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, has nominated Mr. Segun Oladitan as the Chairman of the Osun State Independent Electoral Commission. The Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon Timothy Owoeye, on Tuesday, at plenary, read the letter from the governor seeking the confirmation of Oladitan and other members of OSIEC. Oweye listed members of the state electoral commission as Mrs. Abosede Omibekun (East), Mr. Rufus Oyeniran (West), Alhaja Babalola Adubi (Central) Mr Oladosu Gidigbi (East), Mr. Yinka Ajiboye (West) and Alhaji Wahaab Adewoyin (Central) The lawmakers directed the nominees  to submit copies of their curriculum vitae to the Assembly not later than Thursday, while their screening will come up on the floor of the House on Wednesday, May 27. The Speaker also expressed displeasure of the House of Assembly with Chams Plc for refusing to furnish the Assembly with the details of its activities with the state. He held that the House had written to the organisation requesting the detailed report of its dealings with the state for the fiscal year. Owoeye said, “It is quite disheartening that Chams Plc has failed to turn in the report of the company’s activities with the state, despite several letters forwarded to the organisation by this honourable House. “We are hereby handling down our last warning to Charms as we might be wielding the big stick should the company failed to do the needful this time around. “Should Chams feel too big, we as a House of Assembly will not hesitate to recommend that the state government disengage the services of the firm.” STORY Buhari replaces SEC acting DG, Mary Uduk with Lamido Yuguda …sends Yuguda’s name to Senate for confirmation NGOZI AMUCHE President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday urged the Senate to consider and approve the nomination of Mr. Lamido Yuguda for appointment as the new Director-General of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also to be confirmed are three nominees as full-time Commissioners for the Commission. The President’s request was contained in a letter read by the Senate President, Senator Ahmad Lawan, during plenary in Abuja. Buhari’s letter reads in part: “Pursuant to Section 3 and 5 (1) of the Investment and Securities Act 2007, I write to request for confirmation by the Senate, the appointment of the following four nominees as Director General and Commissioners of the Securities and Exchange Commission.” Those for confirmation are: Mr. Lamido A. Yuguda, Director General; Reginald C. Karawusa, full-time Commissioner; Ibrahim D. Boyi, full-time Commissioner; and Mr. Obisan T. Joseph, full-time Commissioner. 