AS part of efforts to cushion the negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Nigerian economy, the Central Bank of Nigeria said, on Thursday, that it had disbursed a total of N107.45 billion for various projects in the health, agriculture and manufacturing sectors. The Governor of the apex bank, Godwin Emefiele, disclosed this in a communique issued after the Monetary Policy Committee meeting of the CBN, held on Thursday. He said the CBN approved N10.15 billion, under the N100 billion Health Care Intervention Fund; N93.2 billion, under the Real Sector Support Fund, and as part of the N1 trillion intervention targeted at Agriculture and Manufacturing firms; and N4.1 billion, under the N50 billion Targeted Credit Facility for Households and SMEs. Emefiele stated, “The Committee recognised that under the N100 billion Healthcare Sector Intervention Fund, the Bank has approved and disbursed N10.15 billion for some projects for the establishment of advanced diagnostic and health centres and the expansion of some pharmaceutical plants for essential drugs and intravenous fluids. “As part of the N1trillion intervention targeted at Agriculture and Manufacturing firms, the Bank has further disbursed N93.2bn under the Real Sector Support Fund to boost local manufacturing and production across critical sectors. This consists of over 44 greenfield and brownfield projects.” He added, “The Bank has also approved N10.9 billion to 14,331 beneficiaries under the N50 billion Targeted Credit Facility for households and SME’s, out of which N4.1billion has been disbursed to 5,868 successful beneficiaries. The Committee directed Management to reach out to the banks to encourage them to offer and disburse these funds to those priority sectors of the economy so as to stimulate aggregate demand and create more jobs. “The MPC appraised the Federal Government’s resolve to maintain the core of its spending plans for 2020 as this remained vital for the attainment of the much-needed economic recovery. It also applauded the government’s efforts at revising the oil price benchmark downwards to reflect prevailing conditions.” The CBN boss added that the MPC reiterated the urgent need for the Government to improve tax collections, through a gradual, but purposeful diversification of the economy’s revenue base, noting that it also urged Government to remain focused on the implementation of the revised 2020 – 2022 Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) as the basis for sustainable fiscal policy. According to him, the MPC emphasised the need for Government to work towards a gradual reopening of the economy in line with recommendations of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) and advice from medical experts. The Committee, he said, insisted that efforts must be directed at saving not only lives but also livelihoods. On prices, the MPC expressed concern about the heightened inflationary pressure attributed to a combination of monetary and structural factors. While price stability remains the Bank’s primary mandate, the Committee expressed the need for a balanced approach in supporting growth in the face of rising domestic prices. He said, “With respect to output, the Committee urged the Federal Government to continue exploring options of partnership with the private sector to fund investment in infrastructure. This would aid employment generation, support production and boost output growth. “The Committee also reiterated the need for both direct foreign and domestic investments to support growth in key sectors of our economy, including Nigerian auto manufacturing, aviation and rail industries.” 