 … as MD takes 40% pay cut Access Bank Plc, one of the leading Nigerian banks, seems to have taken the lead in the cost cutting regime expected as a fall out of the negative effects of COVID-19 on the Nigerian economy. The bank has sent signals to staff that jobs will be lost and salaries cut across the different departments on the basis of how essential the duties are. As a first step, the Chief Executive Officer of Access Bank, Herbert Wigwe, has indicated that he is willing to lead the pack, by taking a 40 per cent pay cut, pointing out that “everybody may have to make some adjustments of some sort.” Wigwe also noted, in a video trending on social media, that the company could do with fewer workers, saying, “We probably don’t need as many security men as required, even to the fact that we are not going to have all our branches open between now and December… We certainly don’t need all the security men. We don’t need all the tea girls. We don’t need all the cleaners. We don’t need all the tellers etc. “So that number of staff which represents 75 per cent of our staff strength, I think, is the one we basically need to speak with their employers with a view to getting them to rationalise to the level that we think will be necessary to basically sustain a mean but actually a customer service-oriented institution.” According to the bank chief, the management is currently discussing with recruiting agencies and contracting firms on how to reduce workforce. He said, “The second has to do with our professional cost. Now that one is very tricky and it is tricky because I do understand and appreciate that it is going to bring its own pain to staff. We basically have to make the adjustment the same way it sounded when we spoke 10 days ago with respect to basically cutting down cost. “I would be the first to take the hit and I’m going to take the largest pay cut, which would be as much as 40 per cent. The rest, we shall have to cascade right through the institution.” Wigwe explained, “What is important is that these adjustments are what is required at a time when we see Armageddon, when we see great difficulty coming in, to make sure that if there is one institution left standing in this country as a bank, it must be Access Bank. “We appreciate the fact that it is going to hurt people but we necessarily have to take that adjustment to ensure that we protect our franchise and make us stronger as we move into the future.” Efforts to get the bank’s spokesperson, Abdul Imoyo, to speak on the matter did not yield a positive result. His phone was not reachable as of the time of filing this report. 