…harps on devt of comprehensive data bank for Nigeria A Professor of Sociology and Gender Studies from Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, Osun State, Olabisi Idowu Aina, has said that women and female children bear the heavier weight of negative social impact of the Covid-19 pandemic than their male counterparts. Aina, who spoke on the topic “The Social Impact of Covid-19: The Human Pains,” at the Lagos State University Second Virtual Public Lecture, argued that the social strain of the pandemic were being felt more by women and female children as evident in the increase in domestic violence, greater lack to access to contraceptives and resultant increase in unwanted pregnancies occasioned by the Covid-19- induced prolonged lockdown across the globe. She said, “While Covid-19 affects all segments of the society, the social effects of the pandemic are disproportionate across genders. The burden cost of the pandemic leaves more strain on women and children. From global indices, there has been 20 per cent surge in domestic violence. “It has also been projected that because of the lockdown, tens of millions of women may be unable to access contraceptives and other means of birth control with the implication being that there is going to be a rise in unplanned pregnancies. There will be unexpected pregnancies and this will lead to population increase.” Aina also made a case for the vulnerable in the society as the effects of COVID-19 take its toll, saying, “For the first time in Nigeria, it has become more visible that we have failed to take care of the vulnerable among us- the elderly, the homeless and physically challenged individuals. “These people may not have the disease, but they bear the brunt of the disease. With the loss of their sustainability power, many of them rely on government palliatives to sustain themselves. But with no adequate data, how can they be covered in government palliatives?” She, therefore, urged the government to develop accurate data covering gender perspectives. “It is important that we have an accurate citizens’ data; we must have a comprehensive data bank, which will help us to identify the vulnerable among us,” she said. Among other things, she also recommended improvement in the healthcare system of the country. “We must improve our healthcare system, deprioritize reproductive health and family planning services at this time, and we need to promote health insurance and make healthcare affordable,” she said. 