 … says FG’s desicion premature  The Nigerian Medical Association has warned Nigerians against supporting what it described as a premature easing of the Covid-19 lockdown in Lagos, Ogun and Abuja. According to the doctors, the timing of the Federal Government’s decision is not right because the nation is still struggling with the challenges of managing the spread amid inadequate facilities. President Muhammadu Buhari had announced, in a nationwide address on Monday, that a phased and gradual easing of the Covid-19 lockdown in Ogun, Lagos and the Federal Capital Territory would begin on Monday 4th May, 2020. In a statement signed by the President, NMA, Dr. Francis Faduyile, the association specifically noted that Nigeria was still facing the challenges of inadequate Personal Protective Equipment for health workers, inadequate bed spaces and rising cases across the states, among others. The statement, released on Friday in Abuja, said, “As the incidence of the COVID-19 hits the 2000th mark by this weekend, just seven days after hitting the 1000th mark, it figuratively tilts the epidemiological curve towards an upward spike. “More so, the revelation by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control that the nation lacks bed spaces in Lagos worsens this frightening scenario. “The easing of the lockdown even in phases is very premature. Nigeria should learn from her neighbour, Ghana, where the same action produced 100 per cent increase in infection rate in just a week.” The association suggested that rather than ease the lockdown, agencies of state should intensify efforts, through mass enlightenment campaigns beyond current attempts, “to explain the dangers inherent in easing the lockdown prematurely in the face of rising infection rates; and also for the palliatives to reach the needy.” “With 113 healthcare workers in Nigeria reportedly infected with COVID-19 in the course of discharging their duties, NMA reminds all doctors and healthcare workers not to let down their guards in adhering strictly to infection prevention and control protocols,” the statement said. 