 …as ex-commissioner, Ogeh provides relief to victims, restores electricity supply It was sorrow, tears and blood for residents of Iyede kingdom in Isoko North Local Government Area of Delta State, penultimate Saturday, when rainstorm wreaked havoc in the community and environs, killing one person. The rainstorm left many house in the affected communities in ruins as about 500 people were rendered homeless during the rainfall, which was accompanied with heavy storms. Also, several other persons were injured by storm that wreaked havoc in Otor-Iyede, Ekuigbo-lyede, Ogewho and Oghara-lyede. The deceased person, 18-year-old Ataregre Naphtal from Ekreme in Otor-lyede, according to his father, Ataregre Peter, was outside playing with his friends when the thunder struck. Narrating the incident to our correspondent, who visited the communities, Ataregre said his son died immediately as a result of the injury he sustained from the rainstorm while his remains had been buried. Apart from the death of the teenager, several houses, including Concord International School, were destroyed, leaving many residents homeless at the end of the rainstorm that lasted about two hours. Also, several electric poles were destroyed, leaving the community in total blackout. A community leader and Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Youth Monitoring and Mentoring, Mr. Jonathan Umukoro, said, “The rainstorm was a terrible one which destroyed several buildings, including the Oghara Iyede Town Hall. “It destroyed over 50 houses. Most of our properties have been destroyed. This is beyond our capacity and we call for help from relevant government agencies and well-meaning individuals.” Speaking on the development, Chairman of Isoko North Local Government Area, Mr. Emmanuel Egbabor, condoled with the family of the deceased and assured them that he would immediately visit the area to ascertain the level of damage. But barely 48 hours after the rainstorm wreaked havoc in some parts of Iyede Kingdom in Isoko North Local Government Area of Delta State, help came on Monday, last week, to the affected communities whose properties, including electric poles, were destroyed. The immediate past commissioner for housing in the state and an illustrious son of the Kingdom, Architect Joseph Ogeh, bankrolled the replacement of damaged electric poles and reconstruction of the roof of the Community Town Hall destroyed by the rainstorm in the affected communities. To this effect, Ogeh commissioned and mobilised officials of the Benin Electricity Distribution Company to replace the damaged electricity poles and restore power to the affected communities. Contractors are equally working on the Town Hall. Ogeh, who is currently Chief Consultant to the Delta State Government, said he was moved by the appeal from the Kingdom to come to their aid at this trying time. While commiserating with the family of the deceased, the former commissioner assured them that he would do everything within his powers to restore electricity to the affected communities. He said, “The incident of Saturday was a terrible experience and I commiserate with the Ataregre family on the demise of their son in the rainstorm. “As a leader and stakeholder in the Kingdom, I was contacted about the rainstorm that rendered over 500 people homeless and threw the entire communities into darkness due to damaged electricity poles. “I have commissioned BEDEC to, as a matter of urgency, within the next four days, restore electricity to the affected communities. “This intervention, which involves changing 30 electric poles, 20 high tension and 10 low tension as well as repairs of part of the roof and changing of PVCs ceiling of the Town Hall at Oghara- Iyede, will cost millions of naira. “I took the decision to intervene because the community can’t be in darkness when they have an illustrious son like me. “In the next couple of days, we will restore electricity to the affected communities and I’m glad to inform you that the people are quite pleased with our swift response as BEDEC has already commenced work on the project.” he said. Also speaking on the incident, President-General of Iyede Progress Union, Chief Jerry Okokowa, commended Ogeh for his swift response, saying the people were happy and grateful to God for giving them an illustrious son, who was always ready to come to the aid of the community in times of distress. He further appealed to the local and state governments to come to the aid of the affected communities as the pains were too much for them to bear. Okokowa said, “Arch. Ogeh’s swift intervention is very commendable and the kingdom will soon write him a letter of commendation to express the gratitude and appreciation of our people for his kind gesture. “We pray that God will continue to bless him to do more for the community and humanity in general. 