The management of Right-Dev Limited, publishers of The Point Newspapers, has described the death of the eminent Islamic scholar, Sheikh Sidiq Farouk Onikijipa (Rido) as a great loss to the Muslim Ummah. In a condolence message on Tuesday, the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Right-Dev, Hajiya Lateefat Yemi Kolapo, said Shehu Rido’s sudden death came as a big shock to the Muslim communities in Lagos, Ilorin, Kwara State, and Nigeria as a whole, even though “death is a debt to be paid by all.” Describing the late scholar as an indisputable human encyclopedia in Fiqhu (Islamic Jurisprudence), Kolapo said the sad loss was irreplaceable.   She said this as she also condoled with the Egba Muslim Community on the passing of the Chief Imam of Egbaland, Alhaji Liadi Orunsolu. The Right-Dev MD, who is also the Zeenat-ul-Quadriyyah of Nigeria, recalled thought provoking lectures by Sheikh Sidiq (Rido) on knotty areas of Islamic injunctions, which had helped to clear the air and make the understanding of the religion much easier. She said, “Sheikh Rido was a father to all that came close to him. He looked for knowledge as far as Allah SWT could take him and prepared himself for the Deen better than many in this part of the world. He was an epitome of humility, always prepared to accept Allah’s will, in whatever form, as the best. “Sheikh Rido lived everyday like it was the last, carried his students at Marcaz like eggs and honoured them without restraint at every opportunity. He poured himself into the faith and de-emphasised wealth in his dealings with all. “This great scholar will be sorely missed for his contribution to the growth of Islam and for teaching the beauty of Islam through his rare selfless conduct within his nuclear and extended families and among Islamic scholars in general.” Hajiya Kolapo urged Muslims to emulate his exemplary life in order to make Nigeria a better place for all. “We at Right-Dev Limited and The Point Newspapers commiserate with the late Sheikh’s younger brother, Sheikh Sulaiman Farouk Onikijipa; the Emir of Ilorin, Ilorin descendants, ZAMTOQ Islamic Foundation, and the entire Muslim Ummah on this great loss. May Allah (SWT) forgive his shortcomings and grant him Jannatul Firdaus. May He give us all the strength to bear the painful loss,” she said.  