 … ask NCDC, PTF to give visual evidence, not numbers  As world leaders continue to introduce various measures to manage the effects of the Coronavirus pandemic on human lives and economies, Nigerians, at home and abroad, have called on the Federal Government to be more practical in its account of the situation in the country. The concerned Nigerians, who spoke in separate interviews with The Point’s correspondent, said the picture being painted within and outside the country, on the attitude of many Nigerians to safety measures being rolled out by health bodies to contain the spread of the virus, was disturbing. According to them, Coronavirus is a deadly disease that has claimed the lives of many, all over the world, including Nigerians in the Diaspora, and should not be treated with levity in the country, or the consequences may be disastrous. The Chief Executive Officer, Linksfield Resources, Dr. Aderonke Ayodele, said those at the centre of efforts aimed at containing the spread of the virus and managing the situation at hand, were not doing enough to show Nigerians why they must be careful even without anyone telling them. She said, “I have heard people say that the only thing they see on the screens are figures of active cases in the different states, death toll, number of people discharged etc. Elsewhere in the world, the people are the ones saying they will continue to stay at home until the cases are really down. “This is because all they see are practical examples of people infected with  COVID-19, in pain in hospitals. We also see corpses being packed, daily, by health workers kitted in PPE, everyone in a sober mood. But in Nigeria, it has become a political thing where all you see on the screens are patients dancing choreography, looking healthier than even those of us at home. And you want Nigerians to believe that there is fire on the mountain?” While urging government to quickly re-assess its easing of the earlier lockdown in critical centres, she said the NCDC and the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 must, as a matter of urgency, tell Nigerians how exactly they planned to stem the rising cases. On his part, a financial analyst, Mr. Durosinmi Alebiosu, insinuated that the Nigerian situation might not be as bad as it was being presented by the authorities. Alebiosu, who resides in the United States, alleged that announcing rising figures could be a way of getting more funds from donors and international organisations, saying that the viral video of suspected Coronavirus patients protesting on the streets and mixing with other residents was an embarrassment to the country. He said, “Instead of seeing live accounts of the deadly nature of this virus on our TV stations, all we see is the exact opposite that tells you Coronavirus may not even exist. Today, a governor will say it is malaria that is killing his people; tomorrow, another will say it is fasting. What sort of country is this? “Why would our government not be serious for once? You unlock people to go to the streets at a time you say that the cases being recorded are skyrocketing, and you locked people inside when there were a few cases. How logical is this? The explanation I have been hearing is that they needed to do that to avoid mass protests due to hunger, since government cannot satisfy everyone’s needs. “In the United Kingdom, Borris Johnson refused to open up, even when the success rate was high. He said he would rather not waste past efforts at containing the spread of the virus and push UK into a worse crisis. These are leaders who are not pushed about. They know what they are doing. And we will also get there in Nigeria. Even here in the US, (President)Trump’s plan to reopen the economy was reconsidered on the basis of the reality on ground.” Mr. Segun Showunmi, Spokesperson of the Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the 2019 election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, told our correspondent that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration started the fight against COVID-19 with a copy and paste strategy, with origin from the Western world. According to him, there is nothing wrong in exploring how other countries leading in these cases have tackled their problems, but emphasis must be placed on the peculiarities of Nigeria as a country. He said, “If they had locked down when they were supposed to, and followed all the strategies strictly and not politically, we should be witnessing less cases by now. It is scary like you have said, but God will deliver us. “The Buhari government should account for how exactly they are spending aids and donations from all over. They are not only for palliatives, they are for enhancing the capacity of the health sector to be able to withstand the challenges of the pandemic.” Other Nigerians, who spoke, urged the President to review the activities of the PTF and NCDC to ensure that Nigeria “is actually on the right path in terms of the fight against COVID-19.” They also urged governors to be responsible leaders in these trying times, warning them against the effects of misleading their people, and indeed, all Nigerians. 