 … call on home govt to rescue them Some aggrieved Indian workers at the Dangote Oil Refinery Company in Lagos State have accused their employer of exposing them to COVID-19 infection and forcing them to work “through physical violence.” The workers, who called on the Indian government to rescue them and take the necessary steps to protect and save their lives, also alleged that they were being forced to work during the lockdown without salary. In a related development, The POINT had reported exclusively that workers at the Dangote Cement Factory, in Ibese, Ogun State, had raised the alarm over the risk posed to their lives by the alleged defiance of the lockdown order by the company’s management. They had accused the management of compelling them to work and live together on the company’s premises despite the distancing and other rules by health agencies. The Indian Dangote Refinery workers, who posted a YouTube protest video on Saturday, alleged that the company’s management was not saving them from Coronavirus but exposing them to death. A representative of the group of workers said, “The people here are forcing us to work by taking us out of our rooms and pushing us into the bus in order to make us work. The company responsible for this is the Power Mech Company. “We, the people working in the Power Mech Company, have not been paid. The workers have not received any payment since three months and there is no food arrangement made for us. The food which is given is worse (than) those of animals. “In this situation of the pandemic, they are not saving us from the disease but are trying to kill us of this disease and are pushing us into it so that we die.” The unidentified representative had earlier said they were speaking from Dangote Refinery, situated almost 60km away from Lagos in Nigeria, noting that they were workers at the company. He said, “The whole world is suffering from coronavirus, which is a global pandemic. Nigeria has also announced its lockdown. During this lockdown, the workers of Power Mech Company are being forced to work. The staff here are forcing us to work through physical violence. “We request our Home Minister, Mr. Amit Shah, and Prime Minister, Mr. Narendra Modi, to kindly understand our problems and help us get out of this situation by taking necessary steps to protect and save our lives.” He added, “The people here are forcing us to work by taking us out of our rooms and pushing us into the bus in order to make us work. The company responsible for this is the Power Mech Company. “In this situation of the pandemic, they are not saving us from the disease but are trying to kill us and are pushing us into the disease so that we die.” When The POINT’s correspondent contacted the Group Head, Corporate Affairs, Tony Chiejina, on Saturday, he said, “Don’t call me again on the matter. It’s sheer madness.” 