Chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ogun State, Senator Buruji Kashamu, on Friday donated car gifts through his Omo-Ilu Foundation to members of the newly inaugurated Executive of the party in the state. Kashamu’s loyalists held the inauguration of the new state executive at the party secretariat in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. The new exco members are expected to officially assume duties on Monday when the tenure of outgoing State Working Committee ends. They were inaugurated to run the affairs of the party in the next four years. The tenure of the Bayo Dayo exco officially ends next Sunday. The Oath of allegiance was administered to 15 new exco members by a lawyer and notary public, Mr. Victor Owokoya assisted by Oluwatoyin Omomehin. The outgoing Chairman, Dayo and former State Secretary, Semiu Sodipo, were suspended recently from office. The newly inaugurated Ogun PDP Chairman, Samson Bamgbose, assured that the people of the state that his administration would ensure the return of the party to power in the state in the forthcoming elections. Bamgbose stressed that the party was committed to displacing the ruling All Progressives Congress in the state. He said, “I give kudos to almighty God for giving me the grace to lead this party at this crucial time and even before I became the chairman of this great party, my ambition, vision is to see this party coming back into track. “Few years ago, this party was managing this state; we produced the government, PDP was running the government, but along the line something happened and it went off. “So, for now my primary aim is to bring the party back on that track. We want to be in government, we want to produce the next government and we are producing the next government.” The new chairman also insisted that the congress that produced the executive was backed by the constitution of the party. He maintained that the executive was elected from ward to local government and was ratified at the senatorial level. Bamgbose disclosed that the list of the newly inaugurated exco members had been sent to the PDP National Executive Committee in Abuja. The new Ogun PDP chairman added, “About what is happening now, as far as I’m concerned, as far as I know, there is no error. “Today, we are doing our inauguration of the Executive that has been constituted and elected and before we can do anything, we must be inaugurated. “You can see the inauguration in batches; we are completely abiding by the signal from the state government to prevent any gathering that is more than 15; we are complying. “What we have done so far is according to the constitution of the party.” Speaking further on efforts being made to unite the PDP members in the state, the new chairman vowed to bring everybody together, disclosing that he would immediately communicate the election and inauguration of the new SWC to the PDP National Headquarters in Abuja. Bamgbose said, “As the Chairman of the party, I am here to serve; I have started sending calls to all the aggrieved members to come and let us come together and do this thing. “I as the chairman of the party cannot do it alone, I need the support everyone. I have started sending signal to all aggrieved party members that we should come together, the umbrella is so big and I am sure they will response.  Even those that have left for APC, we have talked at length and some of them will be here. In less than no time, I believe we will see that things are taking better shape. “The National Executive Committee is father of all, their own is to see PDP producing the executive that is ready and can deliver. Our own responsibility is to forward whatever we do here to them, I believe the National Executive committee with what I have seen, I think we will have fine rapport; for the  past a week or two, we have been discussing with them.  Things are taken another shape and they too are interested in seeing Ogun PDP coming back.” The newly inaugurated Ogun PDP exco members include Kehinde Oladehinde (Deputy chairman) , Adeleke Shittu (Secretary) , Abimbola Lanre (Women Leader) and Rafael Olaosebikan (Youth Leader). Others are Olasunkanmi Oyejide (Publicity Secretary), Vivian Ogunwo (Legal Adviser), Tomi Anifowose (Financial Secretary and Toyin Atoba (Treasurer). 