… as MPC reduces MPR to 12.5%, retains CRR, liquidity ratio The Central Bank of Nigeria announced a reduction of its Monetary Policy Rate, from 13.5 per cent, to 12.5 per cent, on Thursday, leaving the Cash Reserve Ratio and Liquidity Ratio unchanged at 27.5 per cent and 30 per cent, respectively. The CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, who disclosed this in a communique issued after the apex bank’s Monetary Policy Committee meeting, added that the MPC retained the Asymmetric Corridor of +200/-500 basis points around the MPR, which is the rate at which the CBN lends to Deposit Money Banks. He said this just as he disclosed that total credits of the banking sector increased by N3.1 trillion or 20.45 per cent in the first quarter of 2020. A compilation of sector-by-sector disbursements also showed that a total of a total of N107.45 billion had been disbursed by the apex bank for various projects in the health, agriculture and manufacturing sectors. The apex bank boss added that total asset in the banking system increased by 18.8 per cent, while total deposits also rose by 25.52 per cent (year-on-year). He said, “The performance of the Loan-to-Deposit Ratio (LDR) policy which was introduced in July 2019 showed that total credits increased by N3.1 trillion or 20.45 per cent, with manufacturing, retail and consumer loans, general commerce and agriculture as major beneficiaries. “The Committee observed that though the equities market was largely bearish in the first quarter of 2020, moderate improvement continued to be recorded since the beginning of the second quarter. Consequently, the All-Share Index and Market Capitalisation increased by 18.33 per cent a piece, between end-March 2020 and May 22, 2020.” He added that the bullish trend reflected improved investor sentiments in response to the mitigating measures introduced at the outset of the pandemic by the monetary and fiscal authorities as well as the positive outlook in the global oil market, noting that the MPC expressed confidence that the current monetary and fiscal policy measures would further strengthen investor confidence. According to Emefiele, the Non-Performing Loans ratio decreased to 6.58 per cent at end-April 2020, compared with 10.95 per cent in the corresponding period of 2019, due largely to recoveries, write offs and disposals. The development, he said, was adjudged by the Committee as a sign of reasonable stability in the banking system, urging the Bank to maintain its toolkit of prudential and regulatory measures to ensure that NPLs stayed below the prudential benchmark of five per cent. He said, “The overall medium-term outlook for the global economy remains broadly uncertain as the COVID-19 pandemic and associated containment measures continue to disrupt normal economic activities across the globe. The global economy remains largely confronted with several headwinds, some of which include: weak aggregate demand due to declining consumer and investor confidence; disruption in global supply chains; shocks to oil and other commodity prices; continued lull in global financial markets; adverse shocks to global capital flows; as well as rising corporate debt in the advanced economies and public debt in some Emerging Market and Developing Economies. “Available data on key macroeconomic variables in the domestic economy indicate that the economy achieved a positive output growth during the first quarter of 2020. The Committee noted that even if the lag effects of COVID-19 result in a low negative output growth in the second quarter of 2020, it could quickly be reversed to avoid a recession by Q3 2020 based on the far-reaching measures taken by the monetary and fiscal authorities to mitigate the combined effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and oil price shock.” He further said projections by both the International Monetary Fund and the Federal Government indicated that the economy would contract in 2020 by -3.40 per cent, adding, however, that, given more recent developments, the CBN Staff projections indicated a somewhat less pessimistic range of contraction. Emefiele stated, “This forecast is underlined by the measures to arrest the rapid spread of COVID-19; improvement in crude oil prices which stood at about US$34.8 per barrel as at 28th May 2020. The moderate recovery in crude oil prices would reduce the pressure on the external reserves and government revenue. Headwinds to growth, however, remains the legacy issues of the persistent infrastructural and security challenges. “Central to the Committee’s considerations were the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the oil price shock and the likely short to medium-term consequences on the Nigerian economy. In particular, the Committee acknowledged the gradual improvement in macroeconomic variables particularly the improvement in the equities market, the containment measures of the COVID-19 induced health crisis, as well as, the impact of the increase in crude oil price on the external reserves.” 