 The National Security Adviser, Maj. Gen. Babagana MONGUNO (retd), has assured Nigerians that President Muhammadu Buhari has taken note of the pressing security challenges facing Nigeria and will address them in due time. The NSA said this while briefing journalists after the National Security Council meeting, chaired by the President at the Presidential Villa, in Abuja. He said that the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, who briefed the meeting first, highlighted the gains made so far in the fight against COVID-19, while also stressing areas requiring urgent attention. Monguno said, “We just concluded a meeting of the National Security Council. The National Security Council as you know, is the highest security body in the country and it is always chaired by Mr. President, and we sit at least once every quarter to discuss the most critical issues affecting National Security, issues that are external, internal and other military issues. “Today’s meeting started with a brief by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, who as you know is the Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. He gave a comprehensive brief on the gains made so far, highlighting areas of concern, areas that need to be addressed, as well as making projections for the next couple of weeks.” According to him, there will be continuous briefings by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, but for the purpose of Thursday’s meeting, the SGF’s brief was mainly focused on the current situation, areas that need urgent attention and possible solutions. The NSA added, “After the briefing of the SGF, I, as the National Security Adviser, presented a couple of memos to council in relation to the current security challenges faced by Nigerians. “These are issues that revolve round insurgency in the North East, armed banditry, emergence of all kinds of groups that are not essentially bona-fide and I also highlighted other issues that are related to the problems of kidnapping, which we notice has been on the increase in recent times. “But the most important thing is that I stressed to the Council that there is a need for collective action, not just by security agencies but by all Ministries, Departments and Agencies of Government, as well as civil societies, and other Non Governmental Organisations within Nigeria.” He noted that the country was currently being disturbed by “all sorts of criminal elements trying to undermine national security.” “Mr. President noted all issues raised and in due time, he will be able to address those issues,” he said. 