Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State has said that his administration has put in place a life insurance policy for health workers in the state. He added that hazard allowance for the health workers had also been reviewed upward by 300 per cent. He disclosed this during a meeting with representatives of health workers in the state at his Office, in Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. The Association of Resident Doctors at the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Sagamu, Ogun State, had called out its members on a three-day warning strike, beginning from last Monday, pegging their grievances on an alleged poor state of welfare for health workers in the state. Abiodun said the planned life policy for health workers in the state would have taken off immediately but that his administration would have to wait for the Federal Government, which is also putting in place a similar programme, to commence the policy. “I want to inform you that we have put in place life policy for our health workers. We would have started immediately, but we will wait to go along with the Federal Government which is also planning a similar programme,” he said. The governor expressed his satisfaction with the spirit of negotiation of the health workers, noting that their requests and resolutions with government showed that they were concerned with happenings in the health sector. He, however, appealed to the workers not to always allow issues degenerate into a crisis before opening up communication channels with government. “What transpired was because we have not been engaging each other as much as possible. I am impressed with the spirit of negotiation. Your requests and resolutions point to the fact that our health workers are concerned with what is happening in the health sector,” Abiodun said. According to him, prior to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Government had commenced the rehabilitation of hospitals, with 236 Primary Health Care Centres across the state. He said the pandemic was a surprise to everybody, adding, “This happened just as we were beginning to roll out plans for total reform of our health facilities beginning with 236 Primary Health Care Centres. “However, I want to assure you that this government is determined to ensure provision of adequate health care for our people.” The Commissioner for Health, Ogun State, Dr. Tomi Coker, commended the passion of the health workers, saying they had demonstrated that they were ready to give their all in the sector. 