. ‘We spent the night on the Expressway with fuel tankers’  Nigerians, who were trapped on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, and could not get to their homes before the 8pm curfew put in place by the Federal Government as part of the safety measures to accompany the gradual easing of the COVID-19 lockdown, recounted their ordeal on Friday. According to many motorists, who spoke in separate interviews with The Point’s correspondent, they were forced to sleep overnight on the Expressway as law enforcement agents blocked all vehicles from going out of Lagos or coming in. The interstate lockdown also worsened matters, they said. Mr. John Adebare, an Uber driver, told our correspondent that he had taken a rider to Lekki, and left for the mainland around 5pm to beat the curfew time. “But right after we left Lekki, we were in a heavy traffic till we got to Oworonshoki. Just before Beger busstop, there was suddenly no movement again. I guess there was a VIP movement and we were allowed to move a bit. By the time we managed to crawl to OPIC, there was no movement again. Everything grinded to a halt. I got home around 6.30am this morning,” he said. Another man, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, told our correspondent that he had been told by a friend that such occurred a day before, but he didn’t realise that it was that bad. He said everyone was afraid because hundreds of vehicles were trapped in the “standstill”, and there were fuel tankers also parked along the road. According to the commuter, who is a civil servant, no one was wearing a mask again, as many people left their cars to sit around the expressway for fresh air. “People were sharing the little food they could buy in the traffic, while children were crying everywhere. If government says there is curfew, they should punish offenders and not worsen the situation by letting them sleep on the road,” he argued. A secondary school proprietor, Mr. Ade Adelabu, who said he also slept on the Expressway, advised the Federal Government to restrategise on the curfew, taking into consideration, the traffic situation in Lagos. “As for me, I left the Island early enough to beat the curfew. But what would I have done when everywhere was blocked, right from Victoria Island? I don’t wish for my enemy to go through what I went through yesterday,” he said. He advised Government to introduce punitive measures as a way of enforcing the curfew, arguing that subjecting Nigerians to such torture of sleeping on the road overnight was inhuman. President Muhammadu Buhari had announced a gradual easing of a five-week lockdown in Lagos, Ogun and Abuja, from Monday, May 4, 2020, and had ordered an overnight curfew, from 8pm to 6am. 