A single mother, Eunice Isaac, has accused her estranged husband, Paul Isaac, of kidnapping her four children from her apartment at Oloja Street, Bariga, Lagos. The children allegedly kidnapped are Victory Isaac, 12; Divine Isaac, 9; Emma Isaac, 8 and Testimony Issac, 7. The incident, which has been reported to the police at the Onipanu Division, occurred when Eunice was said to have gone to the market to get food for the kids. Somolu Coordinator of Child Protection Network, Comrade Toyin Okanlawon, who confirmed the incident, said Eunice and Paul were married before they divorced a few years ago. Okanlawon alleged, “Paul was married to Eunice Isaac; they both have four children, who are three boys and a girl. They both divorced five years ago following a misunderstanding which led them to mediation centre at Oloja Street, Bariga. At the mediation centre, Mr.  Issac Paul said he couldn’t take care of the children; so the children were being taken care of by their mother, Eunice. “On Monday, 11th of May 2020, when Eunice went out, Isaac Paul came in to take all the children away without their mother knowing; he also stole her Television and Gotv decoder. “ Meanwhile, a resident of the area, Ola Ahmed, said Paul had called Eunice to inform her that he took the children. “Eunice later received a call from her ex-husband and perpetrator, who told her she would never see the children again and she could go to anywhere she knows.  She spoke with two of the children on phone while they were all crying to see their mother,” he said. When contacted by our correspondent, Eunice confirmed the incident, saying her husband was responsible for the abduction of her children. “He called me on phone to confirm that he took them away. He also said I will not set my eyes on them again. I am not comfortable with my children being with him because I don’t trust him,” she said. Eunice also said that a court gave her the custody of the children after their divorce a few years ago. She, however, called on the Police in Lagos to assist her in rescuing and retrieving her children.  