 … donates 3 church buildings as isolation centres  The Serving Overseer of the Citadel Global Community Church (formerly Latter Rain Assembly), Pastor Tunde Bakare, has donated two church buildings to the Lagos State Government for use as isolation centres. A private residence in Abeokuta has also been donated to the Ogun State Government for the same purpose. Bakare, who made this known in a broadcast shared by the Church on Sunday, urged other religious leaders to support government’s efforts at containing the spread of COVID-19 rather than criticising the continued closure of churches. He said, “This morning, I would like to bring ethical correction to some of the lamentations of certain people within the church over the ban of congregational worship in churches across the land, while markets and hospitals are allowed to operate…..I am so glad that not only churches are prevented from congregating, the mosques also are locked down. “The government’s order to open the market for a few days is to prevent hunger, especially in the lives of daily earners because the palliatives by the government cannot go to all citizens in their homes right now.” He urged churches with multiple facilities to collaborate with the Federal Government, rather than their leaders criticising its efforts. Bakare noted, “I am not suggesting what we are not prepared to do; we have already done that in our church. We have offered two of our facilities to the Lagos State Government and the private residence we have in Abeokuta, we have offered to the Ogun State Government. “Let the church lead in this campaign and support the government, rather than criticising them for all the arduous tasks they are presently confronted with.” He pointed out that there was no distance in the spirit, adding that the church was not the building but the saints of God. “So, if we cannot congregate because of the lockdown, we can be very effective in our neighbourhood as our brothers’ keepers and at our various workplaces,” he said. Bakare said COVID-19 might have resulted in a lockdown that had made congregational worship impossible for awhile, but added that every home must become more or less a church “and every office table and stall must become a pulpit.” 