For man and environment, crisis or conflict situation is unavoidable. However, the end result of crisis or conflict could be negative or positive. And it could be both. One of the fallouts of the ongoing battle against COVID-19 in the northern states of Nigeria is the issue of the Almajiris. They neither created, nor fathom the present circumstances they have found themselves. In desperate moves to contain the spread of COVID-19, and control of the movement of people, the Almajiris, who have been with us for several decades, have fortunately or unfortunately become the first target of the perceived interlopers (unwanted guests). The new song now is, “They must be shown, and taken to their roof or roots.” The history of the Almajiri system of Islamic education, a concept well-intentioned, but later abused and debased, is already a household affair to all and sundry, and needs no repetition here. As stated, some governors of the northern states are busy documenting and repatriating the Almajiris in their respective domains to thier original states. For now Kaduna, Kano and Katsina states are examples in this dispensation and they appear unrelenting. In the process of repatriating the children to their respective states, there emerged the revaluation that some of them are coronavirus positive- one of the emerging reasons why governors embarked on this action to safeguard their home states. Legally, the concerned governors acted within their competence, the timing, moral question and any other considerations notwithstanding. After all, there have been hues and cries at conferences, debates, boardrooms and seminars with regard to the overhauling of the Almajiri system, but all resulting in mere paper verbiage or empty talks. Therefore, if the issue of coronavirus would change the scenario of the present debased system for better, as pointed out in crisis or conflict, the end result could be positive or negative or both. However, what has been the reaction or disposition of Governor Babagana Umara Zulum of Borno State in the current contemporary happenings on the fate of Almajiris, bearing in mind that the bulk of them were taken to Borno for Islamic education at a tender age? This is what informed this article or writing. Borno, the citadel of Islamic education and knowledge, cannot and must not remain unconcerned about any issue relating directly or indirectly to Islam. It is on record that Kanem Borno brought Islam to West Africa. Gaidam had an ancient history, having inherited the glories of the great Sayfawa city of Birnin Garzargamo, situated a few kilometres away from here. It was a centre of scholarship and learning, where scholars from Maghrib al-_Agsa, the Nile valley and the central Bilad al-sudan, converged in search of knowledge. They brought with them ancient literatures of classical Arabic, the history of Islam and the Muslim civilisation. To this city, many scholars have brought with them the knowledge of Al-Azhar and the Kushite civilisation. Education, scholarship and learning have, therefore, a very long history in this city. The whole of Gaidam once represented the massive structure of a university. In one part of the city, the great Imams read and discussed the Quoran, the Tafsir, while in another part of the city, scholars were engaged in scholastic debate on Figh Hadith and philosophy. In spite of the coming of Western education, Geidam maintained this position of prestige and honour to the extent that the name of some of the great Ulamas of this city have become very well known to people in other cities of the central Bilad al-Sudan and the Nile valley. Thus, interest in scholarship and learning as well as contributions to the cause of education, are not new to the people and have, in fact, pre-dated the coming of western education. For several decades, Borno was the Mecca for all, including the Almajiris seeking Islamic education and knowledge even at a tender age. Hence, the existence of hundreds of thousands of the Almajiris in Borno’s soil today. Therefore, it sounds strange, rightly or wrongly, that the issue relating to repatriating the Almajiris to their original homes is being discussed and implemented possibly without the input of Borno, the residual home or greater habitat for the concerned. As a matter of fact, Borno should take the lead. When asked about the fate of the Almajiris in Borno State with regard to repatriation to their home states as presently being done in some parts of northern states, Dr. Salisu Kwayabura,a member and secretary of Borno State COVID-19 Response Team, was not forthcoming but regretted the present poor state of the Almajiris, adding that they needed our empathy and sympathy. Agreed they need empathy and sympathy. However, they need more. They need decent life, they need security and must be hopeful. In the light of sensitivity, importance and relevance of the future of the Almajiri system to our future endeavours, especially in the northern states and in the light of prevailing circumstances, Governor Zulum cannot but be part of the moving train before it is too late. It is better to strike the nail when it is hot. Otherwise, if this issue is left unattended to as far as Borno State is concerned, he might be too late for hearing when he decides. . Victor Izekor, a journalist and analyst, writes at victorizekor@gmail.com. 