A principal lecturer at the College of Education, Ekiadolor, Edo State, has committed suicide. The sad incident, which occurred on Friday, threw his colleagues and the entire staff of the institution into sadness and mourning, especially as his suicide was linked to what they described as his pitiable financial state. The lecturer, identified as Friday Osadolor, was said to have hung himself in his residence at Obakhavbuaye, off Ekenwan Road. Police from the Oba Market Police Station reportedly recovered the lifeless body of the deceased, found dangling, with a rope tied around his neck and tied to a window rail in his apartment, The Point learnt. The middle-aged lecturer, who was said to be a principal lecturer at the Department of Adult education, had reportedly complained about his inability to attend to his failing health, owing to lack of money. His colleagues also said that he had been complaining about not wanting to continue begging his friends to help him sustain his health, adding that he also had challenges with the upkeep of his family. There has been no reaction from the deceased’s family even as he was said to have left no suicide note. The Chairman, COEASU of the institution, Fred Omonuwa, was, however, quoted to have said, “It is clear the death came as a result of lack and inability to access medical facilities. Some months ago, he became very sick and depended on friends for assistance but very recently, he started complaining of getting tired of consistently begging to survive. “Of course, everybody knows that the Edo State Government owes us 13 months of salary which we have continued to agitate for even before the election but it was tagged political agitation. The man couldn’t provide for himself. His wife just had a baby. We were surprised yesterday that he took his own life.” He added, “Before he committed suicide, he spoke to some colleagues on Wednesday, complaining bitterly about his inability to access medical facility and becoming very ashamed of begging friends for money to treat himself. “We are aware some friends in Lagos and Benin have done their best in the past few weeks by providing money for him and yesterday he took his life by hanging. We are very much aware that the suicide he committed was as a result of lack of money.” 