BY LINUS CHIBUIKE … beefs up security around correctional centres THE Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has ordered the deployment of anti-riot policemen nationwide to address the violence that has marred the ongoing #EndSARS protests across the country. About five police stations were set ablaze by suspected hoodlums in Lagos and Ibadan, Oyo State, with about five persons killed in the separate incidents on Tuesday. There have also been two prison breaks in Edo State in one day, in addition to scores of injured people and recorded deaths in other parts of the country, The Point reports. The IGP said in a statement on Tuesday that the deployment of the mobile police unit was to secure critical national infrastructure across the country. He also ordered the deployment of police operatives to strengthen security in correctional facilities nationwide. The statement, titled, “Attacks On Police Facilities, Others – IGP Orders Deployment Of Anti-Riot Police Officers”, signed by Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba, said, “The IGP has also ordered massive deployment of Police operatives to strengthen security around Correctional facilities nationwide. “The orders are coming on the heels of increasing attacks including acts of arson and malicious damage to public and private facilities as recorded in some states of the Federation including the Federal Capital Territory. “Consequently, the Commissioners of Police in the thirty-six (36) States of the Federation and the FCT are to identify and isolate law-breakers from peaceful protesters; immediately arrest and diligently prosecute such perpetrators of violence in their respective Commands.” The IGP called on members of the public to avail the police with useful information that could lead to the re-arrest of fleeing inmates, unlawfully released from Correctional facilities. While advising parents and guardians to prevail on their children and wards to steer-clear of acts of violence and criminality, he said, “The Force will henceforth exercise the full powers of the law to prevent any further attempt on lives and property of citizens.” The #EndSARS protesters set out to protest police brutality and extra-judicial killings, but this has been extended to a demand for good governance in all. 