THE Police in Osun State have arrested a teacher, Gbenga Samson Ayenioye, and his friend, a theatre practitioner, Tunde AmokeOja, for allegedly raping a teenage girl (name withheld). Our correspondent gathered that Ayenioye, who was a Financial Accounting teacher at Osogbo Grammar School, Technical Area, invited the girl, said to be one of his students, to a chalet at Latona area in Osogbo on Sunday, February 16, 2020. Ayenioye, a married man, in his early 40s, was said to have allegedly forced the 16-year-old girl to bed in one of the rooms at the relaxation centre. The suspect was said to have lured his student to bed with a promise that he would assist her with the payment of her WAEC fees and also connect her with his friend to nurture her acting skills. Ayenioye has been transferred from the school to the State Ministry of Education. After this act, findings revealed that Ayenioye introduced the girl to his friend, AmokeOja, a theatre practitioner on the premise that he would assist her in developing her film acting skills in order to be able to raise funds for her WAEC fee. On February 18, 2020, AmokeOja, a film production manager, allegedly asked the teenage girl to meet him at Delightful Gold hotel along Onibueja road in Osogbo, to feature in a film. The girl was said to have honoured the invitation at the hotel where she was allegedly raped by AmokeOja in one of the hotel rooms when she was asked to go and change her dress. The two men had threatened their victim not to disclose her ordeal to anyone and advised her to take water with plenty salt after which the girl bled for 15 days following the incidence. During a counselling programme organised by a Non-governmental organisation in Osun State, Value Female Network (VFN) for young girls on sexual reproductive health and rights, the victim was said to have divulged her ordeals to the NGO officials. When contacted by The Point, the head of the gender unit of the NGO,  Moriike Yaagboyaaju, confimed that the victim informed the NGO that she was raped by the duo. It was further learnt that the suspects were arrested by officers from the Dugbe Police Station for interrogation upon the victim’s complaints. The matter was later transferred to the Criminal Investigative Department of the Police Force in Osogbo. The two suspects were detained at the CID in Osogbo while the Family Unit of the CID has been making arrangements to arraign the suspects. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Yemisi Opalola, confirmed that the suspects had been arrested. Opalola said they were in the custody of the CID. 