 BY AYO ESAN THE Government of Oyo State has approved the purchase of 106 brand new buses for the mass transit scheme in the state. This is just as it has also approved the construction of two link roads around Akobo, as well as junction improvement contracts in the Challenge area of Ibadan. The Oyo State Commissioner for Information, Wasiu Olatubosun; his Budget and Planning counterpart, Adeniyi Farinto; and the Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Seun Fakorede, who addressed newsmen on the outcome of the state’s Executive Council meeting, said that the approval was in line with the government’s drive to transform the transport sector and improve the state’s economy through same. Fakorede said that the 29th State Executive Council meeting approved the purchase of the buses at the cost of N9.3billion. In a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Taiwo Adisa, the state government indicated that the approval for the purchase of the buses was one of the resolutions reached at the meeting. Fakorede noted that transportation was a vital factor in the economic development of any nation, adding that the purchase of the buses would greatly assist the development of intra-city transportation in Ibadan and other parts of the state and also boost its economic development. He said the operations of the Bus Rapid Transit scheme, as a major means of public transportation, had been accepted in some Nigerian cities over the years. The Pacesetter Transit Scheme is a good example of the BRT system existing in Oyo State, according to him. The Commissioner said, “I wish now to state that the effort and the commitment of the present administration under the visionary leadership of His Excellency, Engineer Oluseyi Makinde, are revamping the agriculture sector in the state. “So, it is imperative that the state provides adequate and effective means of transportation, of moving persons, goods, and services, which will have a multiplier effect on commerce and economic development of the state.” He added, “A company, by the name Petrobridge Nigeria Limited, has been identified as having the capacity and the capability to immediately supply 106 unit of buses to complement the transportation-related activities in Oyo State. “To this end, it is worthy to note that there is an urgent need to purchase 106 units of brand-new buses to complement the fleet at the PTS and also to improve the mass-transit system in the state and, by extension, boost the economy of the state. “Therefore, the council considered and approved the supply of 106 unit of brand-new buses at a total cost of N9,395,427,659.5 only, all taxes inclusive.” Similarly, the state’s information commissioner explained that the Council considered and approved the contract for the execution of the junction improvement works at Challenge Roundabout and Felele/Idi-Odo Junction to Messrs Planet Project Limited at the cost of N2,538,856,913.36. He said that the project would ensure the installation of an intelligent transportation system, which, he noted, included intelligent traffic signals, traffic signal installation, traffic signs, anti-finger metal security fence and other infrastructural systems with control room and coordination traffic signal devices. According to him, the system will serve as a major catalyst for traffic solutions at the Challenge, Felele/Idi-Odo junctions. The Commissioner for Budget and Economic Planning, in his contribution, said that the Council granted approval for the rehabilitation and construction of two link roads at Akobo area of Ibadan at the cost of N69 million. He said that the project would be executed through Direct Labour by the Oyo State Transport and Road Management Agency (OYSTROMA) and that it was expected to be completed within two months. According to Farinto, the two link roads include the one linking the Ojoo Expressway, beside the General Gas-Akobo Bridge, while the second link road is the one beside the NNPC Mega station. He said the importance of the project was to bring relief to road users constantly facing traffic gridlock along the Akobo-Ojurin Federal Road. “The contract is to be executed through the direct labour efforts of OYSTROMA, and it is to cost N69,170,431.72. The execution of the contract will commence soon and it is expected to be completed within two months,” he said. 