BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO THE ruling All Progressives Congress and main opposition Peoples Democratic Party have traded blame over those behind the attacks on #EndSARS protesters in Osogbo, Osun State. For the second time, suspected thugs have attacked #EndSARS protesters in the capital city. One of the protesters, simply identified as Oloyede, was on Saturday, injured as the hoodlums matcheted him. The protesters had gathered at Olaiya junction in Osogbo to resume their protest against Police brutality before some thugs wielding matchets and other weapons, stormed the area and dispersed them. The Point had reported that a group of thugs on Thursday, attacked the protesters and dispersed them, inflicting injuries on one protester. While the PDP accused APC of sponsoring the thugs to disperse peaceful protesters, the APC argued that the thugs were sympathetic to the cause of the PDP. The PDP, while condemning the attack on residents of the state, mainly youths, who joined their counterparts in protests, said the thugs belonged to the APC. A statement signed by the Deputy Publicity Secretary of the PDP in the State, Yakub Idowu, challenged the state Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, to deploy the seal of authority conferred on him by laws of the land to protect the good people of the State in times like this and not use same to unleash crude violence on them. But in a statement on Saturday, APC’s Director of Publicity, Reasearch and Strategy in Osun, Kunle Oyatomi, noted that “two of the known thugs, who were said to have been ferried in from Ede, a neighbouring town to Osogbo, were seen brandishing long guns and even shooting sporadically into the air during one of the protests on Friday.” He said, “Now, it has been clearly established that the protests in the State have been hijacked for ulterior and political motives; security agencies should as a matter of necessity and urgency take charge to avoid any break down of law and order. “A situation where known political thugs, who have sympathy for a political party, join protesters to intimidate and harass members of the public while shooting sporadically into the air is dangerous and unacceptable.” 