 AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI THE Governor of Ebonyi State and Chairman of the South East Governors’ Forum, David Umahi, has defected to the ruling All Progressives Congress. The member representing Ezza South/Ikwo Federal Constituency, Ebonyi State, in the House of Representatives, Chinedu Ogah, confirmed the development in a telephone interview with our correspondent on Saturday. Ogah, the only House of Representatives member from Ebonyi State, who was elected on the platform of APC, described the Governor’s move as a bold step in the right direction. He urged governors of other South East states to emulate him for stability in the polity in the South East. The lawmaker, who did not disclose when, where and why the governor left the Peoples Democratic Party, on which platform he was elected in 2015, however, told The Point that South East should “be in the central government; we can not continue to be in opposition.” He said, “Yes, it is true. We need unity in South East. We need to be part of the central government; we can not continue to be in opposition. Yes, Governor Umahi’s defection to our great party, APC, is a step in the right direction. We cannot afford to remain in opposition. We must join the ruling party to continue to reap the dividends of democracy. “I am calling on other Governors in the South East to toe the line of Governor Umahi and join APC. We have to be at the center; we have to join mainstream politics for overall development of our zone and the country in general. President Muhammadu Buhari has done well. Everybody should join the APC to encourage him.” There had been unconfirmed reports that Umahi had defected to the APC after meeting several leaders of the party, including President Buhari. However, efforts to speak with the state Commissioner for Information and the PDP Chairman, Uchenna Orji and Onyekachi Nwebonyi, respectively, were not successful, as all calls to their mobile phones, as of the time of filing this report, were neither received nor returned.THE Governor of Ebonyi State and Chairman of the South East Governors’ Forum, David Umahi, has defected to the ruling All Progressives Congress. The member representing Ezza South/Ikwo Federal Constituency, Ebonyi State, in the House of Representatives, Chinedu Ogah, confirmed the development in a telephone interview with our correspondent on Saturday. Ogah, the only House of Representatives member from Ebonyi State, who was elected on the platform of APC, described the Governor’s move as a bold step in the right direction. He urged governors of other South East states to emulate him for stability in the polity in the South East. The lawmaker, who did not disclose when, where and why the governor left the Peoples Democratic Party, on which platform he was elected in 2015, however, told The Point that South East should “be in the central government; we can not continue to be in opposition.” He said, “Yes, it is true. We need unity in South East. We need to be part of the central government; we can not continue to be in opposition. Yes, Governor Umahi’s defection to our great party, APC, is a step in the right direction. We cannot afford to remain in opposition. We must join the ruling party to continue to reap the dividends of democracy. “I am calling on other Governors in the South East to toe the line of Governor Umahi and join APC. We have to be at the center; we have to join mainstream politics for overall development of our zone and the country in general. President Muhammadu Buhari has done well. Everybody should join the APC to encourage him.” There had been unconfirmed reports that Umahi had defected to the APC after meeting several leaders of the party, including President Buhari. However, efforts to speak with the state Commissioner for Information and the PDP Chairman, Uchenna Orji and Onyekachi Nwebonyi, respectively, were not successful, as all calls to their mobile phones, as of the time of filing this report, were neither received nor returned. 