BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO THE Nigerian Bar Association, Ilesa branch, Osun State, on Tuesday, warned against the imposition of curfew to calm the #EndSARS protests across the country. The lawyers fumed at the imposition of curfew by some state governments and asked them to withdraw it or prepare for the implosion of the nation. The lawyers, armed with big banners with inscriptions like “#EndSARS, We say no to Police brutality”, “We say no to bad governance”, “We say no to corruption,” visited the Police area Command office in Ilesa to express their displeasure against police brutality across the country. Olátúnjí Sokoya, the immediate past Secretary of NBA, Ilesha Branch, condemned the imposition of curfew and maintained that it had the tendency of collapsing the nation if not well managed. He said at a time the masses were agitating for an end to bad governance, it would be counterproductive for Governments to impose curfew, The Point reports. Sokoya said it was time Nigerian youths took over governance in the country since the present leaders had failed the masses. Explaining why the NBA joined the #EndSARS protest, Sokoya said, “The motive behind this protest is that there is a popular saying that ‘he who can not be angry at evil lacks enthusiasm for good’. If we keep quiet in the face of tyranny, it shows lack of enthusiasm in us. As lawyers, we have been given the right constitutionally to speak for the people and especially on behalf of the oppressed. “Nigerian youths cannot be agitating for #EndSARS, bad governance, corruption and lawyers will keep quiet. The set of people that ruled us during Independence are still the ones ruling us and that’s why Buhari of the eighties is still the one ruling us. So, as lawyers, we need to join this protest and tell Nigerian government that we are tired of bad governance and hardships in the country.” He said all the lawyers in Ilesha marched out to show their grievance with the government of the day and the current situation in Nigeria. “We need cleansing in our land,” he said. The NBA vowed to ensure free legal services for protesters in the state. Sokoya said, “If any protester is arrested, we are going to ensure that we render free legal services for the release of such protester. We told them that it is their legal right to protest under the ambit of the law. “I want the government of Osun to know that this is a state of Omoluabi. Protest in Osun State is very organised and wonderful. I don’t expect the state government of Osun to impose a curfew. If you impose a curfew, it’s like sitting on a keg of gun powder, it will explode and when it explodes, nobody will be able to contain it any longer.” “A curfew is like making Nigerians sit on a keg of gun powder. You can only stop the people but you can not stop a movement. This is a movement for the emancipation, oppression and subjugation from bad governance. It can lead to the end of this country if this imposition continues. We want a new Nigeria and we cannot continue to keep quiet. We need to speak out,” he added. 