For the first time since the #EndSARS protests broke out, President Muhammadu Buhari addressed Nigerians on Monday, assuring citizens that the disbandment of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad was the first step in the plans for an extensive police reform by his administration. He said all those responsible for misconduct or wrongful acts would be brought to book. Critics have called the President out for not addressing the nation in spite of lingering protests across Nigeria against the brutality and extrajudicial killings by men of the now scrapped SARS. The President addressed the nation in a short broadcast uploaded on his verified Twitter handle @MBuhari. Buhari said, “I would like to use this opportunity to say a word on the recent genuine concerns and agitations by Nigerians about the excessive use of force, and in some cases, extra-judicial killings and wrongful conduct of the men of the Nigerian Police Force. “The disbanding of SARS is only the first step in our commitment to extensive police reforms in order to ensure that the primary duty of the police and other law enforcement agencies remains the protection of lives and livelihood of our people.” He added, “We will also ensure that all those responsible for misconduct or wrongful acts are brought to justice. We deeply regret the loss of life of the young man in Oyo State during the recent demonstrations. “I have directed that the circumstances of his death should be thoroughly investigated. Meanwhile, it is important to recognise that the vast majority of men and women of the police force are hardworking and diligent in performing their duties. “The few bad eggs should not be allowed to tarnish the image and reputation of the force.” The Point had reported that the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, announced the disbandment of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad at the federal level and in the 36 states, including the Federal Capital Territory. The IGP’s action came on the heels of protracted protests by Nigerians at home and abroad against the recklessness of the operatives in discharging their duties. The IGP said the personnel would be reintegrated into other policing organs. 