BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI A Coalition of Ebonyi State-based Non-Governmental Organisations, in collaboration with the National Human Rights Commission, has rescued an eight-year-old girl alledegly tied, hands and feet, and kept under the sun for eating sweet meant for her boss’s child. The NGOs – Human Rights Defenders (HURIDE), Child Protection Network (CPN), Human Rights and Conflict Resolution Centre (HRCRC), in collaboration with National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) ) Ebonyi State branch, upon receiving the report, stormed the crime scene at Number 7 Divine Grace Street, Mile 50 axis of Abakaliki. It was learnt that, on getting there, they did not meet the 26-year-old mother of one and a serving National Youth Service Corp member with the Ministry of Agriculture Ebonyi State, who had allegedly been maltreating the minor. In a press statement, the state Chairman of Human Rights Defenders, Sampson Oko- Nweke, on behalf of the NGOs, noted that Miss Osinakachi Iboko had lived with her mistress, Mrs Agatha Iboko, native of Izzi Local Government Area of the state, for two years. He disclosed that the NGOs had to go to the Chairman of Izzi LGA, Paul Nwogha, who later assisted them to bring the fleeing violators back to Abakaliki to face the consequences of their actions. Meanwhile, according the NGOs, a foreign-based Human Rights activist and Philanthropist, Simon Ekpa, had indicated interest in the safety and welfare of the abused child and placed her on scholarship as she reunited with her biological mother. They said, “The maltreated little girl in this trending video is an eight-year-old Miss Nancy Osinakachi Iboko, who has lived for two years with her violator, Mrs Agatha Iboko from Izzi LGA, Ebonyi State. For eating part of the sweet meant for her baby, she was tied up by her aunty and left her in the scorching sun to burn while the husband watched without doing anything. “It took the intervention of passionate neighbours (Chinedu and Raymond) to untie and get her off the noose. “Yesterday, upon receiving the report, Human Rights Defenders (HURIDE) in collaboration with Human Rights and Conflict Resolution Centre (HRCRC), National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and Child Protection Network (CPN), stormed the crime scene at Number 7 Divine Grace Street, Mile 50 Abakaliki. “However, before we got there, Mrs Agatha and her husband, Philip Iboko had locked up their house and run way to their village, switching off their phones. Mrs Agatha Philip Iboko is a 26-year-old mother of one and a serving Corp member with the ministry of Agriculture, Ebonyi State.” They added, “In our firm resolve to track the perpetrators of the heinous crime, we had to go to the Chairman of Izzi LGA, Chief Paul Nwogha who later assisted us to bring the fleeing violators back the Abakaliki so they can face the consequences of their actions. So, this morning, 25th October 2020, we invited the police to get her arrested alongside her husband for complicity. “While we wait for tomorrow 26th October, to reunite the abused child with her parents, she is left in a momentary custody of the Local Government Chairman, Chief Paul Nwogha, on his request. “Meanwhile, a foreign based Human Rights activist cum Philanthrophist, Mazi Simon Ekpa has indicated interest in the safety and welfare of the abused child. He has spoken with her on video and has graciously offered to take up her sponsorship from this moment.” Ekpa was quoted as saying, “She needs to go back to her mother, and start school. I will fund her school. Special thanks to Mummy Flora Egwu, Comrade George Etameso, Barr Steve Ugama, Comrade Chibueze of NHRC. With your collaborative efforts, the dignity of this little child is being restored and justice certain for her.” Efforts to speak with the accused Corp member were not successful. Video Player 