POLICE in Lagos have arrested a man, identified as Yomi Johnson, for defiling his 14-year-old daughter for four years. Johnson, who resides at Power Line Street, Bale Bus Stop, Meiran area of Lagos, was said to have been defiling the teenager since she was 10 years old. It was learnt that the randy father started having carnal knowledge of the minor immediately he drove her mother out of the house. Some residents who confirmed the matter, told The Point that the girl had, several times, reported her father’s evil deed to her step mother but said the woman always told her to keep quiet. A resident of the area, who simply indentified herself as Folake, said, “When the girl became tired of her father sleeping with her for four years, she protested and informed a neighbour, who, in turn, informed activists. She said she had reported the case to her stepmother who always told her to shut up. “Instead of the woman (stepmother) to do something, she relocated her daughter out of the house.” Meanwhile, one of the activists, who stepped in to handle the matter, Joseph Olawale, alleged that the father (Johnson), had been defending his action, claiming he had the right over his daughter’s private part, until he landed in police net. Olawale said, “His case is now with the police who will eventually take him to court after investigation. When the neighbours confronted him upon the girl’s complaints, he told them he had the right to determine what he did with his daughter’s private part. “I wonder the kind of father that is. We have done our part to ensure police arrests him. His fate now lies with them.” The suspect was said to have evaded arrest several times, when the DPO of Meiran Police Division ordered his arrest. He was, however, eventually arrested following a fresh report to the DPO of Meiran Division, SP Shokunbi Toyosi. The randy father also reportedly begged for forgiveness over his misdeed. Police sources confirmed to The Point that the suspect had been referred to the Gender Section of the Police Command for further investigation while the girl had been taken in by the Lagos State Government for rehabilitation and treatment. 