 FOLASHADE KEHINDE THE Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board has advised the media against resuscitating an alleged N7.3bn contract scam, reported about 10 years ago, at this period in the country’s history. The Board said it was surprised that a section of the media was dwelling on a sensational report of an issue that transpired over a decade ago as if it had just happened. There had been reports that the Senate indicted JAMB in an alleged N7.3bn contract, which was awarded between 2012 and 2013, reportedly without recourse to due process. However, in a statement, titled, “Re: Ex-JAMB Registrar Awarded N7.3bn Contract without Due Process”, JAMB said the media, as a critical stakeholder in the nation’s quest for peace and harmony, should always be alive to its responsibilities so as not to be seen as unnecessarily aggravating a tense political atmosphere. It said, “The attention of the Board has been drawn to a sensational report in some sections of the media on an issue that transpired over a decade ago as if it had just happened. “We are surprised that the media is resuscitating a matter that happened years back at a time that everybody is conscious of further inciting the restive masses. At the moment, such sensational news, if it should feature at this point in time at all, should, of necessity, be appropriately spiced with ample explanations and headers, to the effect that such issues had happened in the past and adequate measures had also been taken since then to prevent a recurrence. “The mood of the nation should guide us all in whatever we do as doing contrary would only compound the already fragile security situation in the polity. “The media, as a critical stakeholder in the nation’s quest for peace and harmony, should always be alive to its responsibilities so as not to be seen as unnecessarily aggravating a tense political atmosphere.” The Board added that it was not disputing the cardinal role of the media in the war against graft but was only affirming that in some situations, it must tarry in featuring certain things no matter the urgency, The Point reports. It said, “The Board would continue to respect the media, not only as the Fourth Estate of the Realm, but also as the watchdog of our nascent democracy. However, the Board is of the view that the timing of this report is not appropriate. “We all have a responsibility to ensure that peace is returned to our cities, as such, let us do everything possible to de-escalate the situation by shunning the urge for sensationalism.” 