BY ADELEKE ADESANYA THE crisis situation in Nigeria, following the hijack of the #EndSARS protests, has continued with more intensity as Nigeria recorded three actual and attempted prison breaks on Thursday alone. In Ondo State, suspected thugs invaded the National Correctional Service Centre in Okitipupa, the headquarters of the Okitipupa Local Government Area of Ondo State, and forcefully released the inmates. The leadership of the NCS confirmed that 58 inmates escaped during the attack while a vehicle was burnt. Public Relations Officer of the Ondo State Command of the NCS, Ogundare Babatunde, confirmed the incident. IKOYI PRISONS, LAGOS In Lagos, there was a jail break attempt at the Ikoyi Correctional Centre. Parts of the building were torched. However, a combined team of correctional officers, soldiers, police and the Civil Defence, were able to foil the attempted jailbreak. It was gathered that some inmates had ignited the fire in a part of the centre to pave the way for their escape. Reports said that the administration offices of the centre were razed down but no inmate escaped, The Point learnt. WARRI It had not been officially confirmed as of the time of filing this report how many inmates escaped from the Warri Correctional Centre on Okere road, Warri South Local Government Area of Delta State on Thursday. Inmates had reportedly set some buildings inside the centre on fire. The state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya, confirmed the incident but said only the authorities of the correctional centre could confirm if any inmate escaped. She, however, promised to inform the public on the situation with inmates. The Point had reported that, following a combined effort of the Nigerian Correctional Service Arms Squad, Army, Police and Civil Defence officers, a massive attack on the Medium Security Custodial Centre, Abakaliki, Ebonyi State Command was also averted on Wednesday. In a statement made available to The Point, signed by the Public Relations Officer of the Nigerian Correctional Centre, Ebonyi State Command, Iyasei Nneka, the Command said the about one hour and 30 minutes gun battle with suspected hoodlums, on Wednesday, was resisted to a point of retreat. The first among the jail breaks, as the protest against police brutality took a dangerous dimension, occurred in Benin, Edo State three days ago. An angry mob attacked the Benin Prison along Sapele Road, Edo State, freeing many inmates in the process. 