By Agnes Nworie, Abakaliki /span>
GOVERNOR David Umahi of Ebonyi State has inaugurated three different committees to address demands of #EndSARS protesters in the state. The governor inaugurated an 8-man Judicial Panel of Investigation, headed by the immediate past Chief Judge of the state, Justice Alloy Nwankwo; Victims’ Support Fund, headed by Rev. Fr. Abraham Nwali; and Special Security and Human Rights Committee, comprising heads of the security agencies in the State, among others. The 8-man Judicial Panel of Investigation, according to Governor Umahi, is saddled with the responsibility of receiving and investigating complaints of Police brutality, human rights violation or related extra-judicial killings. They are to also evaluate evidence presented/other surrounding circumstances, and draw conclusions as to the validity of the complaints; as well as recommend compensation and other remedial measures, where appropriate. Their assignment is expected to be concluded within a period of six (6) months, unless it shows convincing reasons the State Governor should allow an extension. Umahi noted that the Victims’ Support Fund had the duty to enable payment of monetary compensation to deserving victims while the third committee was to ensure the protection of the rights of citizens in the functioning of any special tactical unit of the Police, law enforcement officers and other security personnel. It will also monitor the prosecution of any officer indicted by the Presidential Panel on the Reform of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) or any other investigation process carried out in relation to the Squad. Other responsibilities of that committee are to entertain complaints of human rights violations, liaise with the leadership of the Police and other security agencies for resolution or redress of such complaints; guide the complainants towards the realisation of their rights and set up Human Rights Complaints Office to facilitate easy access of complainants to prompt attention and assistance. The Governor said, “From today, the 20th day of October, 2020,  I hereby appoint the following to be the Chairman and members of the Judicial Panel of Inquiry in Ebonyi state: Justice Alloy Nwankwo – as Chairman; Emmanuel Onwe(Esq) as  Secretary; AIG Kelvin Opoke (retd); Mr Igwe Uche, Mr Olisa Nwuruku, Mr Emmanuel Obasi, Barr Louisa Nwebonyi and Christopher Okorie as Members. “The Judicial Panel shall have powers and authority to hold here which shall be conducted in accordance with the provision of the Commission of Inquiry Law, Cap 29 of Ebonyi State of Nigeria. “I hereby direct that the Panel shall commence sitting in Abakaliki soon after they are sworn in and thereafter hold the state inquiry in such places and upon such dates and as the Chairman may deem fit. “I further direct that the Chairman of the Committee and the members shall before commencing assignment make and subscribe to an appropriate code under Section 6 of the Commission of Inquiry.” 