 BY ADELEKE ADESANYA POLICE authorities in Lagos and Ogun State Commands said, on Monday, that their efforts at restoring peace and order in the states had yielded positive results. Lagos State Police Public Relations officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, said over 200 suspects had been arrested by the state command. He said this just as his counterpart in Ogun State, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said officers of the Command had taken over from the hoodlums, but noted that no arrest had been made yet in the state. Adejobi told The Point on Monday that more suspects were being arrested daily as victims of the hoodlums’ actions kept lodging their complaints at the command. He said, “There are so many suspects that have been arrested. We have not had the exact figure for now, but I can tell you that we already have over 200.  Meanwhile, more are still going to be arrested because people affected are still lodging complaints officially. And we are bound to take their complaints. “We have told all the area commanders to listen to the complaints and commence investigations. And if there is any suspicion, pick them up. So the operation is still ongoing. It may be for the next year. There is no statute in any criminal case.” The Ogun PPRO, however, said, “No arrest has been made so far, but we have restored peace in all affected places in Ogun State. Our men have been drafted into action and they have taken over from the hoodlums. “Peace and normalcy have been restored in affected areas in Ogun State. Efforts are still ongoing in some places and hoodlums will not be spared if they try to disturb the peace of the public again.” Meanwhile, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu had said the state would need N1trn to reconstruct the infrastructures that were destroyed by hoodlums in the state. The governor spoke on Sunday during the visit of the Speaker of the House of Representative, Femi Gbajabiamila, to the scenes of several vandalised properties in the state. Recall that various properties belonging to the state government and individuals were vandalised during the crisis perpetrated by hoodlums that hijacked the peaceful #EndSARS protest in various states. In Lagos State, several BRT buses were set ablaze by the hoodlums around Ojodu Berger and Oyingbo. The hoodlums also set several police stations and a television station on fire during the crisis. 