UNITED States President, Donald Trump, is travelling to Walter Reed Military Hospital in Maryland after testing positive for Covid-19 Donald Trump is to be admitted to hospital, where he will remain ‘for a few days’ on the advice of doctors. The White House said the President would travel by helicopter to Walter Reed military hospital in Bethesda, Maryland. A White House official said the trip was “precautionary” and that he would continue working from the hospital’s Presidential Suite, which is equipped to allow him to perform his official duties. The President was diagnosed with COVID-19 early this morning, and has been suffering “mild symptoms”, including cold-like symptoms, fatigue and a mild fever, according to officials. Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany said, “President Trump remains in good spirits, has mild symptoms, and has been working throughout the day. “Out of an abundance of caution, and at the recommendation of his physician and medical experts, the President will be working from the presidential offices at Walter Reed for the next few days. “President Trump appreciates the outpouring of support for both he and the First Lady.” Earlier, the President’s physician, Navy Commander Sean P Conley, said in a statement, “Following PCR-confirmation of the President’s diagnosis, as a precautionary measure, he received a single 8 gram dose of Regeneron’s polyclonal antibody cocktail. He completed the infusion without incident. “In addition to the polyclonal antibodies, the President has been taking zinc, vitamin D, famotidine and a daily aspirin.” He added, “As of this afternoon, the President remains fatigued but in good spirits. He’s being evaluated by a team of experts, and together we’ll be making recommendations to the President and First Lady. “First Lady Melania Trump remains well with only a mild cough and headache, and the remainder of the First Family are well and tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 today.” The US president, who is in a high risk category due to his age and because he is considered overweight, tweeted in the early hours of Friday: “Tonight, @FLOTUS and I tested positive for COVID-19. “We will begin our quarantine and recovery process immediately. We will get through this TOGETHER!” – mirror.co.uk 