THE Nigerian Governors Forum has said the creation of the Special Weapons and Tactics Team to replace the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad is ill-timed. The governors said, during a teleconference with the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, in attendance, that, owing to the current mood in the nation, the creation of SWAT might be misconstrued as a ploy to dress the scrapped SARS in another garb. The Chairman of the forum, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, said, in a communique issued on Thursday after the meeting, that members of the forum had expressed concern about the sweeping decision to scrap FSARS even while acknowledging the need to address its excesses. According to him, the forum members noted the efforts of officials of FSARS in their states, saying they had greatly assisted in containing the increasing spate of kidnapping, armed robbery, cattle rustling, and other high-end crimes, particularly in the Northern states, where containing these criminal activities would have otherwise been very challenging. Fayemi also noted that the IGP had informed governors that the new SWAT team would however only carry out intelligence-based activities and would not be involved in routine operations. The communique said, “The IGP informed the Forum that after a psychological and medical evaluation, SWAT Officers will be trained and posted to all State Commands – about 50 per state, where they will operate only on intelligence-driven operation. “They will not take part in routine operations but will operate specifically on intelligence after which they will return to their Commands. “The IGP assured Governors that he will leverage the provisions of the new Police Act 2020 to carry out extensive reforms within the Police and he pledged for the support, understanding and guidance of Governors to embark on the new reforms.“ He added, “In response, the Forum acknowledged the concerns of many Nigerians, especially youths that have been affected by the excesses of some officials of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS) and the Nigeria Police. “This notwithstanding, Forum members noted the efforts of officials of FSARS in their States, as they have greatly assisted in containing the increasing spate of kidnapping, armed robbery, cattle rustling, and other high-end crimes, particularly in the Northern States, where containing these criminal activities would have otherwise been very challenging. “Members, therefore, expressed concern about the sweeping decision to scrap FSARS even while acknowledging the need to address its excesses.“ After deliberation and extensive discussions, members, according to.him, resolved as follows: “Governors were unanimous in their support for the IGP and endorsed his plan to carry out far-reaching reforms geared towards greater effectiveness, accountability, and transparency; members called for increased regularity in the meetings of the Nigeria Police Council in order for it to effectively carry out its regulatory and supervisory roles as contained in the Nigerian Constitution.” The Governors, however, observed that the protests went beyond asking for an end to SARS to call for an improvement in governance across board. They therefore urged the Police to fish out members of the disbanded police unit involved in acts of gross human rights violations and ensure they are brought to book. 