A Magistrate’s Court in Osogbo, Osun State, has ordered the remand of a civil servant in the state, Gbenga Samson Ayenioye, and his friend, a theatre practitioner, Tunde AmokeOja, in the Ilesa Correctional Center for allegedly raping an underage (name withheld). The Police, on Wednesday, dragged the duo to court on a three count-charge of conspiracy, rape and indecent assault on the 16-year-old girl. According to the charge sheet, the 46 year-old Ayenioye, and AmokeOja, aged 38, committed the offence in the month of February, 2020, at Latona area and Delightful Gold hotel, Osogbo. The police informed the court that the duo conspired, indecently assaulted and unlawfully had carnal knowledge of the girl. The offences committed by the accused persons were said to be contrary to and punishable under section 31(1)(2) of the Child Rights Law of Osun state 2007, Section 516 and 360 of the Criminal Code Cap 34 Vol ll, Law of Osun State 2002. A Police Officer, Idoko John, had appeared for the prosecution before a lawyer from the Osun State Ministry of Justice, Bankole Awoyemi, made an oral application to take over the prosecution of the matter. The accused persons pleaded not guilty to the allegations preferred against them. A team of defence counsels, led by Mr Bola Ige, made an oral application for the bail of the accused persons in the most liberal and affordable term. Ige said the accused persons would provide reliable sureties if granted bail. Awoyemi, the Principal State Counsel, did not object the bail application but left it to the discretion of the court. Magistrate Opeyemi Badmus approved the request of the ministry of Justice to take over the prosecution of the matter and ordered the police prosecutor to hand over the case file to the State Counsel. Badmus bemaoned incessant rape cases in the country, stressing, “Cases of rape are rampant and we should put a stop to it. We hold the society that duty.” Then, the Magistrate ordered the remand of the accused persons in Ilesa correctional center. He thereafter adjourned the case till November 4, 2020 for ruling on a formal bail application. Badmus adjourned the matter till November 19, 2020 for hearing. 