 BY ABISOYE JOHNSON SOCIO-ECONOMIC Rights and Accountability Project has given the National Broadcasting Commission a 48-hour ultimatum to rescind what it described as the “unconstitutional fines” slammed against Channels Television, Africa Independent Television and Arise Television on Monday. It said the NBC’s action was another example of the Nigerian authorities’ push to silence independent media and voices. SERAP made its position known in a statement, on Monday, titled, “SERAP asks NBC to withdraw ‘illegal fines on Channels TV, AIT, Arise TV or face legal action”, and signed by its Deputy Director, Kolawole Oluwadare. The Point had reported that the NBC fined the three broadcasting stations over their manner of reporting the #EndSARS protests, which it said was unprofessional. The Acting Director-General of the NBC, Armstrong Idachaba, disclosed this at a press conference in Abuja on Monday. SERAP’s statement said, “This action by NBC is yet another example of Nigerian authorities’ push to silence independent media and voices. NBC should drop the fines and uphold Nigerian constitution and international obligations to respect and protect freedom of expression and media freedom. We will sue NBC if the unconstitutional fines are not rescinded within 48 hours. “This is a new low in Nigeria’s protection of freedom of expression, and the ability of independent media to function in the country. The fines are detrimental to media freedom, and access to information, and the NBC must immediately withdraw the decision.” It added, “Media freedom and media plurality are a central part of the effective exercise of freedom of expression and access to information. The ability to practise journalism free from undue interference, to cover peaceful protests, and critical views are crucial to the exercise of many other rights and freedoms. “The media has a vital role to play as ‘public watchdog’ in imparting information of serious public concern and should not be inhibited or intimidated from playing that role. The NBC should stop targeting and intimidating independent media and voices.” The organisation called on President Muhammadu Buhari to caution the NBC to stop intimidating and harassing independent media houses and to respect the Nigerian Constitution 1999 [as amended], as well as the country’s international human rights obligations. 