THE candidate of the All Progressives Congress in the September 19 governorship election in Edo State, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has given a hint that he and his party may contest the outcome of the election, which they lost to Governor Godwin Obaseki of the Peoples Democratic Party. Ize-Iyamu gave the hint in a 60th Independence Anniversary congratulatory message to Edo people on Thursday. He said that the PDP had instituted 13 cases against his running mate and himself and had not discontinued any of the cases, adding that there was therefore no basis for the APC not to pursue any legal action it deemed right under the law. He added that he and his party would exercise every right available to them under the law, given what he described as electoral facts at their disposal. Ize-Iyamu said, “Suffice it to say that, with due sensitivity to the feelings of our people, we are busy collating our facts. Only after, can we speak and speak authoritatively, in the best tradition of rule of law, fairness to all, and due process. We will brief you all in a good time and that time is near. “In the course of our methodical approach, not a few deem to have preempted our course of action; and pleaded that we do not proceed to the courts to challenge the election results. “While that cannot be dismissed as an entirely bad plea, what I can say is that whatever action we subsequently take would be rooted in due process and the rule of law. We will exercise every right available to us under the law, given the electoral facts at our disposal.” The APC candidate added, “Even as we speak, our people should know that PDP and their agents and privies have instituted 13 lawsuits against my running mate and I. None of them have they discontinued after the election. So, if the PDP don’t pass up their rights under the law, why should we in APC do so? “We are at liberty to pursue any legal option we deem fit, so long as the peace of Edo, our beloved homeland, is not threatened. Until you hear from us, I beseech our members to remain peaceful and law-abiding. Let us enjoy the rare pleasure of our nation clocking 60.” He rejoiced with everyone on the Independence Day celebration, including the Oba of Benin. 