By Abisoye Johnson
FORMER President Olusegun Obasanjo has enjoined protesting youths in the country to give peace a chance as they go about making their legitimate demand. Obasanjo in a statement on Wednesday, said he was reacting with a heavy heart and a deep sense of concern about the situation of the country. In the statement titled, “Violence Against Protesters in Nigeria: An Appeal for Calm,” a copy which was made available to newsmen through his Special Assistant on Media, Kehinde Akinyemi, the former President advised President Buhari to also restrain the military and other security agencies from using brute force. Obasanjo noted, “The shooting and murder of unarmed protesters, no matter the level of provocation, has never been effective in suppressing public anger and frustation.  Instead, such actions only reinforce the anger and frustration of the populace and close the window of dialogue and peaceful resolution. “It is clear that Mr. President and his lieutenants did not exhaust the opportunities for dialogue with the protesters before resorting to use of force. It is worse that there is denial of wrong doing inspite overwhelming visual evidence. Great harm has been done but it can be stopped before it completely spirals out of control.” Obasanjo stated further that the country was at a critical moment, adding that “the President must act now before it is too late. This time demands leadership and mature leadership at such.” He said, “Most of the demands of the protesting youths, which Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State swiftly took to the President, are not unreasonably and can be met without anyone’s political interest or ambition being threatened. It is imperative that leaders at all levels, starting with Mr. President, must demonstrate meekness, humanity, and sincerity in meeting the legitimate demands of the protesters and ensuring that justice is served where it must be served. These are the most potent ways of ending this crisis now. “The youth too must give peace a chance while making their legitimate demands. They must be mindful of miscreants who will infiltrate their ranks and give the protests a bad name only, so that trigger-happy forces will kill them. “The destruction and looting of public and private properties will only hurt all of us and set us back. The targeting of individuals and groups for attacks and reprisal attacks will only further widen our divisions, escalate the crisis and threaten our fragile unity. “This is yet another moment when our nation is on the edge of cliff. Our individual and collective actions now and in the next few days will determine where we will go as a nation. May God help us in taking the right steps in the right direction.” 