… We’ll deliver and return Aketi on Saturday – Fayemi GOVERNORS elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress displayed impressive solidarity for the incumbent Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, with their grand turnout at the grand finale of the APC governorship campaign rally, ahead of the poll on Saturday. Unlike in the case of the Edo election where the numbers appeared lean, 12 APC governors from across the geo-political zones, converged on Akure to solicit for the support of the masses for the party’s candidate. Ministers and leaders of the party, including former Governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, who is representing Ogun Central Senatorial District in the Senate, were also on ground in Akure. The governors who attended the rally include: Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti); Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos); Yahaya Bello (Kogi); Abubakar Bello (Niger); Solomon Lalong (Plateau); Abdulrasak Abdulrahman (Kwara); Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna); Babagana Zulu (Borno); Umaru Ganduje (Kano); Inuwa Yayah (Gombe); and Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi). Others are: Abubakar Nassau (Jigawa); National Caretaker Chairman and Yobe Governor, Mai Mala Buni; and former Governor Abdul Aziz Yari of Zamfara, among others. The rally, attended by a mammoth crowd of APC supporters from the 18 Local Government Areas of the state, held at Akure Township Stadium, and sparked anxiety in the camp of the opposition, especially supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party. Some of those who spoke with The Point said the presence of 12 governors, including ex governors, ministers and key leaders of APC meant that the ruling party was battle ready for the election. “They have shown that they will do everything to win and give all the support, legal and illegal. But the Ondo people are ready for them. They will collect their money and vote for Eyitayo Jegede,” the PDP member, Ade Azeez, said. Buni, however, called for a peaceful election but was optimistic that APC would win the poll, urging the electorate to go out and vote en-masse for Akeredolu. “We are here to win election. We are not here to cause any violence. We are here to consolidate our mandate on Aketi. I want our people to come out en masse on Saturday and vote for APC in order to sustain the continuity of progress in Ondo State,” he said. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who attended the rally virtually, along with President Muhammadu Buhari, also canvassed for votes for the APC candidate. He commended him for various projects he said the governor did in the first term, in education, infrastructure, and in the area of prompt payment of salaries of civil servants. Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State assured supporters that Akeredolu would win in the 18 Local Government Areas of the state. “Don’t be intimidated by the opposition parties because we are going to win in the whole 18 local government areas in the state. It is going to be a landslide victory,” he declared. The Chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum, Fayemi, said APC was more united than ever to return Akeredolu as Governor. “We are fully behind the Governor of Ondo State and we shall win by God’s grace. I have to be here because Akeredolu is in the exclusive list of governors in Nigeria and all of us are united and behind him. We will deliver and return Akeredolu on Saturday. There will not be room for a rerun,” he stressed. One of the supporters who spoke with The Point, Folarin Michael, said the turnout of governors at the rally was enough evidence that the APC was united behind Akeredolu. “Forget about PDP propaganda. We are winning on Saturday. They can merge with anyone they like,” he said. 