 TRUE-LIFE STORIES WITH FUNMILOLA ALABI I am a young lady in my late 20s, who got married early this year. Before my marriage, I was the rave anywhere I went to. Men and their parents saw me as someone with whom their family would be well pleased to live with. Even after my marriage and with what some people had heard about it, I remained their dream woman. Both my husband and I are from influential families in the country. We met at a prayer meeting, spoke with each other and soon enough became good friends. We were both gainfully employed and in the church, we were dedicated workers in different departments. People saw us as role models and would always admonish their children to be like us. When it was time for prayers, we were always chosen because it was believed that we were spirit-led. Though I was not in a hurry to get married, our friendship metamorphosed into marriage, as our families were happy with the union. We visited each other’s houses, though with family members or friends. When we got engaged, people were happy for us and wished the wedding would come quickly. In all this, we never went beyond common decency as the highest we could go was hugging. I looked forward to enjoying the union more after my wedding. Our wedding was a dream come true as our parents, family and friends turned it into a carnival. We never had cause to lack anything and while giving the admonishment that day, our religious head said he did not have much to admonish us with, as we already were a source of admonishment and comfort to others. All through the wedding day, I noticed that my husband was tensed and I felt that it could be as a result of planning and preparations for the wedding.  I, on the other hand, was eager, ready to move into the next phase of my life. That night and for a week, we slept in his parents’ house as their culture demanded. We did not really do anything sexual as such, though we went beyond the usual hugging. We had a suite all to ourselves, but we were still conscious that we were with his people. We were, however, confident that our honeymoon and marital life would be full of joy. After the mandatory thanksgiving, we left my parents-in-law’s house for our honeymoon. It was while we were out of the country for our honeymoon that things started getting clearer to me. The first three nights, nothing happened even though we tried. My husband said his mood had to be right, as he had not engaged in sexual intercourse since he joined the prayer band team of the church. By the fourth night, I was already apprehensive as he found it very hard to make love to me despite his spirited moves. In the end, our encounter ended like child’s play. It happened like that for some days and that was when I asked him if something was wrong. He said no, but that he had other ‘styles’, which he enjoyed apart from the usual one and that he was not sure if I would like those styles. I was happy that he opened up and in order to please him, I promised to do anything he wanted. I was shocked when he proposed oral sex. But since I had already promised, I had to do it. It was repulsive to me but my husband was very happy and he went on at it for hours. What I thought was weak became untiring at the oral stuff. I had to beg off after many sessions, but my husband was at his highest peak. The next day, while I was resting in the room, he went out and bought me a set of platinum jewellery set with diamonds, with the promise of more to come. He wanted to start again but I complained of tiredness. I was the one that was now afraid of the night to come while he was eagerly looking forward to it. The same thing happened that night, and it was even more as he brought new dimensions to it. On the third night, I told him bluntly that I didn’t like it, that maybe we could do something else. That was when ‘the teasing style’ started. That night, we had gone to have dinner and while there, my husband spoke with one of the hotel staff. Before long, the room service staff brought what was called a ‘fizzy’ drink. My husband took his and asked me to taste mine, which I did. It was not only nice, I was also in the mood for his ‘teasing style.’ But the experience was horrible. He asked me to tie him to the bed naked and begged me to do so many things to him that pleased him to the point of screaming out in enjoyment. I enjoyed it too in a way and he kept on urging me to drink more of the fizzy drink. Afterwards, he also tied me and I thought I would go crazy with the things that he did to me. Yet, my husband did not make love to me. With the effects of the drink on me, I did so many unimaginable things. Little did I know I was in for real trouble… To be continued… 