BY AGNES NWORIE GOVERNOR David Umahi of Ebonyi State has pledged to compensate families whose loved ones were either injured or killed during the recent violent #EndSARS protest in the state. Umahi made the promise during a statewide broadcast, transcribed and  made available to newsmen in Abakaliki by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Francis Nwaze. The Governor also disclosed that he had set aside N2.6 billion SME fund for organised youths’ cooperatives in all the Local Government Areas of state and advised them to dialogue with his government and make their inputs in governance. He said, “I again plead with our young ones, please, no more attacks, no more destruction of our common asset, no more killing us, killing you or even security agencies.Together we are strong and together, this moment will pass over us to the glory of God. “I will compensate all families whose loved ones were either injured or killed during this unfortunate period, whether security agencies or civilians or even these hoodlums. “We are working on how to assist our parents to ensure our students go back to school by reducing school fees, but you must know that there is opportunity cost, when one is done, another one may not be done because of our meager resources.” Umahi therefore called on the people to go back to their normal activities, saying, “I offer my heartfelt condolences to all those who lost their lives, property and were wounded. I call on all youths, whether good or bad, to dialogue with my government and make their inputs in governance. “I have today set aside the sum of 2.6bn SME fund for organised youths cooperative in all the Local Government Areas of Ebonyi State. Let us dialogue on how you could benefit from it. “This is aside from the over 100 Executive Council members, over 1100 TAs and over 2000 Ebonyians who occupy political positions in the state. Ninety per cent of those who occupy this political positions are youths and over 30 per cent of them are also women. “We have done a lot in our empowerment program, including the One Man, One Hectare of Land in which over 2000 youths are participating.” 