FORMER Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Olabode George, has said that the nationwide peaceful protest against the now defunct Special Anti-Robbery Squad has gained a new dimension which no one should ignore. George in a statement issued on Thursday, titled, “The system is not working”, said the restlessness of angry youths was a reflection of the general distortions in the Nigerian polity. He said the system had foundered on the rocks, adding that there was a need to change and reconfigure what he called the warped, unworkable system for the good of citizens. The PDP chieftain said, “A nation of about 200 million people policed by a meagre 400,000 ill-equipped, ill-paid Police Force is anarchy waiting to happen. “There are dislocations everywhere. Hunger, unemployment, under-employment, corruption, greed, nepotism and all sundry ills are tearing our nation asunder. “The protesting youths at the two ends of Lekki Toll gates, in Abuja, in Warri , in Katsina and in virtually all our capital cities across the nation have been provoked to seize the gauntlet because they cannot perceive a meaningful future for themselves in an environment where one man without a visible industry can parade  three private jets and limitless convoy of bullion vans as a war chest at any time.” George, however, advised the Federal Government to empower the youths through various skills acquisition programmes in order to make the economy more vibrant, and create employment opportunities for “this restless and justifiably angry generation.” He noted, “The ultimate solution to this broken system is power devolution. The present structure is too centralised, too dominated by an arbitrary powerful center that is very distant from the local nuances, the complexities and various distinctions and challenges of our diverse communities. “We can take our youths away from the streets not through force, not through  violence, but by restoring their dignities through a more equitable, fair, just, open and more competitive society where the children of the rich and the poor have the same opportunities to actualise their destinies.” 