BARELY seven days to the October 10 governorship election in Ondo State, leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party are all out to woo the Zenith Labour Party and its candidate to their side, through the National Leader of the party, Olusegun Mimiko. The leaders of the party, according to findings, think the existence of a third and recognised force, which the ZLP represents, with the duo of Mimiko and the candidate, the Ondo State Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi, may split the votes and allow the incumbent Governor Rotimi Akeredolu to coast to victory even if the ride is rough. Mimiko, a former Governor of Ondo State, had met former President Olusegun Obasanjo, along with some PDP chieftains, as part of the efforts of the main opposition party to get ZLP to support Eyitayo Jegede, the PDP candidate. Reliable sources within the party told The Point that it was the first major meeting that sought to bring the two parties together, but that the meeting only set the platform for further meetings by executioners of the planned coalition. “One would not expect that Mimiko, being a strong politician over there, and his experience in politics, would fall willingly for the plan without concrete thoughts. But I would tell you that there is progress, and in a few days, we would see where we are going. What everybody agrees, however, is that with a collaboration, there is absolutely no way Aketi (Akeredolu) would win,” the source, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said. Meanwhile, leaders of the All Progressives Congress are also said to be making frantic moves to reconcile the deputy governor and his estranged boss, with a view to ensuring a win for the party in the governorship poll. Some governors and other leaders of the party have been given the assignment to ensure collaboration between the two parties, ZLP and APC, a source close to the discussions told The Point. “I do not believe that APC would not win without teaming up with ZLP. But we are not leaving any stone unturned. Talks are ongoing, and you will be seeing some concrete moves in the next few hours,” a reliable source, who did not want his name mentioned, owing to the sensitivity of the matter, said. Meanwhile, the ZLP candidate has reiterated that his party would not align with the PDP or any other party in the election, saying he was going all ahead and that victory was in sight for him and the party. In a video shared widely, Ajayi said, “Let me make it clear that there is no alliance or merger between Zenith Labour Party, our party, and PDP or any other political party for the purpose of this forthcoming governorship election in Ondo State. “I want to appreciate our teeming supporters for the acceptance and cooperation so far. I want to appeal to everybody that on the 10th of October, they should go out and vote for Zenith Labour Party.” 