NOVA Merchant Bank has announced the appointment of Mr. Nath Ude as its Acting Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer. According to the Bank, his appointment takes effect from October 3, 2020, subject to the approval of the Central Bank of Nigeria. Nath is a seasoned banker, whose experience cuts across three continents in world class financial institutions. He has held several senior banking positions internationally and in Nigeria, including Executive Director, First City Monument Bank (FCMB), and recently, Executive Director, Union Bank, from where he joined NOVA. He started his banking career over 28 years ago with Citibank. Ude has a BSc in Finance, Masters in Business Administration, numerous professional qualifications and attended various leadership programs at globally renowned institutions. A statement from the bank on Monday said, “In the same vein, the Bank also announces the appointment of Mrs Funke Okoya as its Executive Director, Business Development, subject to approval by the Central Bank of Nigeria. Before her appointment, she worked as the bank’s Head of Corporate Bank. “Her banking career, which commenced over 22 years ago with Ecobank Nigeria, cuts across customer services, banking operations, liability management, commercial banking, corporate and investment banking. She has held senior positions in United Bank for Africa Plc, Access Bank, Coronation Merchant Bank and Emerging Africa Capital Group.” Commenting on the new appointments, the Chairman, NOVA Merchant Bank, Phillips Oduoza, said with the experience of these versatile bankers, NOVA remained well-positioned to fulfil its vision of being a major financial solutions provider as it entered the next stage of its growth phase. “These key appointments represent NOVA’s commitment to optimise its management structure and align it to continually serve our clients and leverage on our business successes. It further demonstrates the inclusive nature of the Bank by placing women in key leadership roles,” Oduoza was quoted as saying. The Chairman further stated that the new appointments were crucial as the Bank grew capacity to drive its capital market subsidiaries. The bank said, “These appointments follow the exit of Mr. Anya Duroha, the former Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer; and retirement of Mr. Ayodeji Adigun the previous Executive Director/Chief Operating Officer upon the attainment of the mandatory retirement age of 60 years. “The Bank expressed its gratitude to them for their service since its inception and wishes them all the best in their future endeavours.” NOVA Merchant Bank Limited is an investment grade rated merchant bank in Nigeria, which offers an integrated suite of financial solutions covering Wholesale Banking, Investment Banking, Asset Management, Securities Trading, Wealth Management, Trade Services, Transaction Banking, Cash Management and Digital Banking. 