THE Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria has given the management of Intels a seven-day ultimatum to withdraw the sack letters the company issued to 600 workers or face total shut down of its operations, nationwide. The MWUN, which said the company also recently declared 30 workers redundant in Onne Port, noted that those affected in the latest exercise included workers in the Rivers and Warri operational areas of the company. Secretary General, MWUN, Felix Akingboye, in a letter addressed to the Managing Director, Intels Services, described the decision to sack the workers as unlawful and unacceptable. Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar is said to be a part owner of Intels. Akingboye said, “Over the years, the welfare benefits of your employees (Intels Nigeria Limited) and that of your subsidiary Company, AMS, has always been the product of joint negotiation between your management and the union. In other words, the employees of the principal (Intels Nigeria Ltd) and its subsidiary AMS enjoy the same welfare benefits. “Recently, your management declared about 30 of its employees redundant and the union was duly consulted, and a joint communiqué between management and the union was issued after due negotiation. “Regrettably, however, we are informed that your management has terminated its contract with AMS which has led to over 600 workers (who are our members) being declared redundant without due recourse to the union for the negotiation of their terminal benefits. “Letters of termination/redundancy, we are informed, had already been served on the workers. This unfair labour practice is not acceptable to us.” The Labour leader added, “I have been directed to issue your management with a seven day notice effective from the date of this ultimatum, within which to withdraw all the letters of termination/redundancy served on the workers and recall them to duty, otherwise, we shall be compelled to withdraw our services from your terminal at the expiration of the notice. “We demand that status quo ante should remain pending when a management/union meeting is convened to negotiate their exit and payment of terminal benefits.” 