 AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI GOVERNOR David Umahi of Ebonyi State has sacked four of his aides, including his Special Assistant on Internal Security and Utility (Urban), Nchekwube Anakor, for non-performance. The Governor, in a statement signed by the Secretary to the State Government and  Coordinating Commissioner, Ugbala  Kenneth Igwe, also announced the immediate removal of three Coordinators of Development Centers in the state. The Coordinators are Amos Ogbonnaya, Jerry Okorie Ude and Martha Nwankwo, who served at Anuagata, Okposi and Ohaozara-East Development Centers. According to the statement, Mr Chidiebere Egwu is to take over as SA on Internal Security and Utility (Urban); Mr. Tochukwu Uzor has been deployed to Anuagata Development Center; Mr. Henry Ugochi Ovoke to Okposi Development Center; and Mr. Ernest Okorie to Ohaozara-East Development Center. The statement said, “In the avowed determination of Ebonyi State Government to address prevailing security situation in the state, His Excellency, the Governor of Ebonyi State, Engr Dr David Nweze Umahi, FNSE, FNATE, has ordered the immediate removal from office of the underlisted Coordinators of Development Centers in the State for non-performance. “They are:1.Barr. Amos Ogbonnaya – Anuagata Development Center. 2. Mr. Jerry Okorie Ude-Okposi Development Center, and 3. Mrs. Martha Nwankwo – Ohaozara-East Development Center. “Consequently, His Excellency the Governor, has approved the nomination of the following persons as Acting Coordinators of the affected Development Centers with immediate effect: 1. Mr. Tochukwu Uzor – Anuagata Development Center, 2. Mr. Henry Ugochi Ovoke – Okposi Development Center, and 3. Mr. Ernest Okorie – Ohaozara-East Development Center.” It said, in a similar vein, and on the directive of the Governor, “the Special Assistant to the Governor on Internal Security and Utility (Urban), Mr. Saint Nchekwube Anakor, is hereby removed from office with immediate effect. Mr Chidiebere Egwu is to take over as SA on Internal Security and Utility (Urban).” “All the affected former officials are directed to hand over all government property in their possession to the Secretary to the State Government/Coordinating Commissioner before the close of work on Monday 26th of October 2020,” the SSG directed. 