BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO NO fewer than two persons have been reportedly killed during the #EndSARS protest that rocked Osogbo, Osun State capital on Saturday. Several others were severely injured when some armed hoodlums stormed the protest ground around 5:00pm. The State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, and his convoy were also attacked by the armed thugs that stormed the EndSARS protest ground while the Governor was addressing the protesters. The Governor was said to have escaped death by a whisker as vehicles in his convoy were severely damaged during the attack. Hoodlums were said to have shot at the Governor’s convoy, throwing pebbles at the government officials that accompanied him to the protest ground. Oyetola, flanked by some other Government officials, had joined protesters in the walk from Alekuwodo area to Olaiya junction, where he made attempts to address them. The Point had reported that the protesters had demanded for the Governor’s apology for failing to have addressed them since they started the protest last week. They also asked him to see to the arrest and prosecution of ex-SARS officers who are found culpable of brutality and other human rights abuses. However, when the governor was finally allowed to speak, he apologised for addressing them late and assured that their demands would be met. While still addressing the youths, some unknown armed hoodlums stormed the scene and started shooting and hurling stones at the Governor. The Governor’s security aides immediately whisked Oyetola out of the already tensed protest ground. Scores of yet to be identified protesters were said to have been severely injured as a stampede ensued shortly after the governor narrowly left the scene. Some protesters who sustained severe injuries were said to have been rushed to Asubiaro State Hospital for medical attention while two youths were said to have been killed in the stampede. When contacted on the telephone, the Public Relations Officer of the Osun State Police Command, Yemisi Opalola, said the Police were on top of the situation. Opalola could not confirm the casualties but said that the violent protest would be investigated. 