THE Inspector General of Police,
Mohammed Adamu, has banned operatives of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad and other Tactical Squads of the Force from carrying out routine patrols and other conventional low-risk duties. The Special Tactical Squad, Intelligence Response Team, Anti-Cultism Squad and other Tactical Squads operating at the Federal, Zonal and Command levels are also included in the ban. According to a statement on Sunday by the Force Public Relations Officer, DSP Frank Mba, such duties, including stop-and-search, checkpoints, mounting of roadblocks and traffic checks, among others, have been banned with immediate effect. The IGP also directed that all personnel of the Force must appear in their uniform or approved tactical gear, saying they were not allowed to embark on patrols or tactical assignments in mufti. He warned the operatives against invading the privacy of individuals by indiscriminately searching their mobile phones and laptops, among others. The statement said, “The IGP’s directives come against the backdrop of findings by the leadership of the Force that a few personnel of the Tactical Squads hide under these guise to perpetrate all forms of illegality, contrary to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), Code of Conduct and Rules of Engagement establishing the squads. “Specifically, the IGP has warned the Tactical Squads against the invasion of the privacy of citizens particularly through indiscriminate and unauthorised search of mobile phones, laptops and other smart devices. ”They are to concentrate and respond only to cases of armed robbery, kidnapping and other violent crimes when the need arises. The IGP notes that the FSARS and other Police Tactical Squads remain a critical component of the Force in confronting prevailing and emerging violent crimes in the country.” The IGP condemned every act of unprofessionalism, abuse of human rights and high-handedness by some personnel of the Squads. The statement added, “He has therefore ordered the X-Squad and the Monitoring Unit to embark on immediate and massive nationwide monitoring of activities of Tactical Squads and other police officers on the road. “They are to ensure prompt arrest, investigation and prosecution of all erring police officers who violate these directives and other extant regulations of the Force. “The IGP has equally warned, that henceforth, the Commissioner of Police in charge of FSARS, Commissioners of Police in charge of State Commands and the FCT as well as their supervisory Zonal Assistant Inspectors General of Police, will be held liable for any misconduct within their Area of Responsibility (AOR).” He was quoted to have charged them to ensure effective supervision and mentoring of the personnel of the Tactical Squads under their jurisdiction. The statement disclosed that two operatives of the FSARS and their civilian accomplice operating in Lagos State – INSPR Sale James, INSPR Monday Uchiola and Okechukwu Ogbonna – had been arrested by the Lagos State Police Command, for acts of professional misconduct, including extortion and intimidation of innocent citizens. “The operational vehicle of the men has also been impounded and disciplinary procedure has already commenced against the defaulter,” it said. Not a few Nigerians have called for the scrapping of SARS, citing what they described as the operatives’ recklessness in discharging their duties. Recently, a young man in Delta State was reportedly killed by men of the Special Anti Robbery Squad. A youth was also chased to his untimely death in Osogbo, Osun State, allegedly by the same SARS operatives. 