 SEGUN SHOWUNMI I have never been this sad and unhappy in my entire life. Watching a well initiated #EndSARS protest turn to the worst nightmare of all times in a country filled with world class brains? How exactly did we end up here? Did the Police High Command not know of all the mess within? If they did, what did they do? Now that things have boiled over, who will be held responsible for supervisory negligence? Protest laced with a high dose of entitlement. How did we end up with a young population of people who are willing to destroy all within their pathway in a bid to make a point? What exactly produced this and what are the remedial consequences of this mindless looting and destruction? For the umpteenth time, we need a biometric identification system with a verifiable address. People must never be allowed to get away with criminalities while the entire system looks on helpless; before, during and after. The certainty of punishment is the best remedy to crime. Communication and Media control. No one worthy of being called a Minister of Communications can remain in office right now, ditto the guys in charge of national orientation. Government information management must be overhauled. We have left things too lackadaisical, and it is getting dangerously out of hand. Access to social media is no reason to allow all manner of trash. How can we continue to pretend that a problem left unsolved will disappear? We need to empower the states to have their police. We cannot leave them so helpless and yet hold them responsible for security. It is clearly not working. My heart particularly goes out to them at this time. How did our traditional institution demystify itself to the point that in a mob uprising, they became the target of such despicable mob attack? Sacrilege! When they go about eating puff puff at every party, dancing and misbehaving. What did we genuinely expect? If we are due for a minimal safety net by way of social security, the time to make it happen is now! The number of unemployable and unemployed people in our country is too high. I have never been this sad in my entire life just watching how those in authority have lost it completely. 