 TRUE-LIFE STORIES WITH FUNMILOLA ALABI BY the next day, I was already weak and had pains all over me, but my husband was at his element. We rested for that night. I asked him what was in the fizzy drink; he just said something ‘to give energy.’ The next night was the greatest nightmare as he promised not to do ‘the teasing’ with me until I was ready. He, however, said he had one more style he wanted us to try. When I complained of headache, he gave me a white tablet, which I thought was a painkiller. After taking it, I was strong and was virtually in Cloud 9. That was when the shocker came. Before I knew it, he had rubbed lubricants on me. This time, he did the ‘anal’ and I could not resist because I was not myself again. But it was painful and he told me that it would ease with time. We did not go out of the room; all he kept on ordering were food, the fizzy drink and white tablets, which he said would ease the pain. I got used to the tablets to the point that I started begging him for it and he was forcing me to promise that I would do anything he asked for. By this time, the oral teasing and anal styles were no more new to me. I kept on asking myself if I was really the one doing those things. There was nothing I did not do. I found myself even smiling with joy in front of the camera he was using to record our acts. A week later, I was really down with pains. Though I begged for the tablets, he gave me real painkillers and asked me to sleep. He went out when he was sure that I was asleep. But I woke up to the sounds of people moaning and I went to check the living room. I got the shocker of my life when I met my husband with a male employee of the hotel, who used to bring the items, cuddled in steaming hot romance. He asked me to join them but I backed out. They continued without any compulsion. When they were through and the guy had left, I told my husband that I wanted to go home. He begged and tried to explain that he could not have a normal relationship with a woman except for those acts and that was why he joined the prayer meeting the other time in his church, to see if he could be cured of the obsession. He went further to say that, apart from some men who were also into such things, the only women he could do such to, were the commercial sex workers. According to him, it all started with his parents’ houseboy, who introduced him to some acts. Getting to secondary boarding school, some senior students went further with him and by the time he travelled out of the country for tertiary education, he only had to look for masters of the game. The hotel where we were staying was like a joint to him and that was why he could get the fizzy and tablets easily from his partner. He begged me to help him; that we could have a baby by any method of fertilisation that I wanted if the doctors could do it. It was then I realised that some friends that I used to meet in his house were usually there for something else. As he was talking to me, I was crying and shivering, begging him for those tablets. He said he could not give me any as those tablets and fizzy drinks were mixed with cocaine and that was why I could do those things with him. By this time, I could not bear it again and promised to do anything so long as I got the tablets. He refused and that was when I started having the withdrawal symptoms. For days, I was very ill; he was afraid too and when I could move unaided, I found a way to get to the hotel reception when he went out of the room. I incoherently told the staff that I needed a doctor but my husband came and told them that I was reacting to the medication I took. We came back to the country a week later; our families, seeing my frail state, were happy, thinking that I was pregnant. Staying in our bedroom that I had decorated with love was a nightmare to me, as I did not know who to confide in. To worsen matters, my husband had started coming home with his ‘friends’. At times, when he believed that I must have slept, I would be hearing moans coming from the guestroom, though they tried to play music to drown the groans. I was growing leaner and our families were happy and waiting for the ‘fruit to blossom.’ I could not take it again and so, one day, I spilled the beans to my best friend who wanted to organise a baby shower for me. To say that she was shocked was an understatement, and she, in turn, informed our religious leader and our parents. Everybody was shocked. Then prayers started; he went for therapy and was asked to do so many things. Our parents stood by me and my mother-in-law took me outside the country for proper medical examination. In all this, we both had to stop work for sometime as we were on therapy and prayers. I thought that the situation had improved, but came home one day to meet him in the living room in the midst of male and female friends, having their ‘usual thing’. That was the last straw that broke the camel’s back, as I called our families and told them that I was no more interested in the marriage. Our religious leader too excommunicated him and his parents were very sad. Since then, I had been in my parents’ house. Somebody, not long ago, however, said I should have stayed on, hoping that he would change someday, backing her claims with the ‘for better for worse’ clause to marriage. But I still don’t know how I could continue living in bondage in the name of marriage? I need candid advice. (Concluded) 