THE candidate of the All Progressives Congress in the September 19 Governorship Election in Edo State, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has said that he will not contest the outcome of the election, won by Governor Godwin Obaseki of the Peoples Democratic Party. Ize-Iyamu said his decision was based on his resolve to avoid further tension in the state, even while saying that there were clear grounds available to challenge the results. In a statement he personally signed on Monday, Ize-Iyamu faulted the widespread positive position on the conduct of the election, saying that it was neither free nor fair. There were several episodes of violence, voter intimidation and falsification of results, he alleged. “There were unlawful cancellations of results, particularly from Urhonigbe South and North in Orhiomwon, while results were falsified from many polling units in Ofunama in Ovia South West, and in parts of Ovia North East, Owan West, Oredo, Egor, Ikpoba-Okha, Esan North East, Esan West, Esan South East, and Uhunmwode Local Government Areas,” the APC candidate claimed. He alleged that “gun-wielding thugs took over collation centres in many locations,” but that the security agents looked the other way. “There were also several cases of malfunctioning card readers, which disenfranchised duly registered voters in addition to many cases of unregistered voters voting with pre-purchased voters’ cards not collected by their actual owners,” Ize-Iyamu said. While noting that these points could easily provide the grounds for challenging the election results, he said, “We have decided not to commence an election petition. This is to avoid further tension in the state. “We are also mindful that the leadership of our great party, the All Progressives Congress and many well-placed individuals have made pronouncements endorsing the process, which we have chosen to respect.” The former Secretary to Edo State Government, however said just as “the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its flagbearers have continued to pursue several pre-election suits in various courts against us, all totalling 13,” he would also continue to pursue pre-election cases challenging Obaseki’s eligibility to contest the election. “Consequently, we have decided to continue with our pre-election cases in full exercise of our legal rights, just as our opponents have considered it their prerogative to also continue with their pre-election cases against us,” he said. 