PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday said all necessary measures had been put in place to ensure that the October 10 governorship election in Ondo State is peaceful, transparent and credible. Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, said in a statement in Abuja that Buhari gave the assurance in a video message to party supporters at the Grand Finale of the All Progressives Congress’ campaign for the Ondo Governorship Election, in Akure. The President, who assured the electorate of the provision of adequate security to forestall any breach of the peace by unscrupulous elements, urged them to turn out en masse to vote on Saturday without fear of molestation. He expressed confidence that the party supporters would vote in accordance with the laws guiding the electoral process. While urging the electorate in Ondo to vote for continuity and progress, Buhari explained why Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, the APC candidate, deserved re-election. ”He said, “I have no doubt that our candidate is a good brand for the APC to market. I am particularly delighted by his ingenious approach to governance. ”His performance within the limits of available resources is endearing, just as he has taken the State to an enviable level and on the path of prosperity. ”Having had the privilege of commissioning some of his projects, which I consider enduring legacies, I join you here today to declare that Governor Akeredolu deserves to be re-elected to consolidate the good work he commenced in his first term. ”I am not just proud of his achievements; I am confident he will enjoy the mandate of the good people of Ondo State for the second term.” The President also said he was encouraged by the large turnout at the grand finale, noting that he had keenly followed events in the State in the build-up to the governorship election. ”I have taken a special interest not necessarily because my party is involved but because my focus and attention have been to ensure that we maximise every given opportunity to raise the bar in our collective desire to deepen democracy,’’ he said. Buhari also used the occasion to commend the party’s national and zonal leadership, and the APC family in Ondo State for upholding internal democracy and ensuring a hitch-free party primary. According to him, internal democracy, which is regarded as a major ingredient in the electoral process, was not merely encouraged in Ondo State but zealously nurtured. 