BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE #EndSARS protesters at Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos, on Friday, rejected food and soft drinks donated by the state Chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, Musiliu Akinsanya, popularly called MC Oluomo. A van, which reportedly conveyed the drinks to the protest venue around the Lagos State House of Assembly, was attacked by a crowd of protesters, who were reacting to reports that the union leader was one of those behind the attack on them by thugs on Thursday. Before the unanimous decision not to take the gifts, some of the protesters had already collected the packs until they were told that they came from MC Oluomo, The Point learnt. MC Oluomo had been accused, along with the Lagos State Government and Speaker of the state Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, of masterminding the Thursday attack on protesters in Lagos. But they all refuted the allegations, saying they were the handiwork of mischievous groups. The Point had reported that the NURTW chairman said he knew nothing about the attack, adding that he was a peace loving citizen. MC Oluomo, who spoke through his media aide, Jimoh Buhari, said, “We have no hand in the attacks. People should stop accusing us wrongly. Were the thugs wearing NURTW uniforms? Is MC Oluomo holding a political office? He has no hand in the case.” Oluomo’s spokesman noted that members of the union were also victims of police extortion, adding that it would be foolish of them to oppose an action aimed at ending police brutality. In spite of this clarification, many of the protesters, on Friday, said they were not ready to take what they described as “poison sent to them in the form of drinks.” The water and soft drinks were reportedly branded with Oluomo’s name. The #EndSARS protests have continued in many parts of Nigeria, with major roads blocked, in the protesters’ determination to ensure that all their demands are met. This is inspite of the scrapping of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad and the Federal Government’s approval of the five-point demand of the protesters. 