 … ‘6 policemen, 4 civilians killed’ FOLASHADE KEHINDE THE Lagos State Police Command disclosed, on Tuesday, that a total of 120 vehicles were burnt and 22 vandalised by hoodlums that hijacked the #EndSARS protests in Lagos. The Commissioner of Police in the state, Hakeem Odumosu, unveiled the figure just as he disclosed that six policemen and four civilians were killed during the violence that marred the protests in the state. Odumosu spoke while parading 520 suspects arrested in Lagos for their involvement in the destruction and looting of private and public properties. He said the suspects were arrested for various offences, “ranging from arson, robbery, murder, rioting, malicious damage, and unlawful possession of firearms.” Giving a breakdown of the destruction of vehicles, he said 58 police vehicles were burnt and 13 vandalised, while 62 vehicles belonging to individuals, and those connected with some pending cases, were burnt and nine others vandalised. He added that aside from those who lost their lives, 38 cops were also injured in Lagos. Sixteen police stations were also razed and 13 vandalised across the state by the hoodlums, the Police said. He listed the burnt stations to include Orile, Amukoko, Layeni, Old Area J Command Ajah, Elemoro, New Area J Command Elemoro, Igando, Ebute-Ero and Ilasamaja Police Stations. Others were Makinde and its barracks, Ikotun, Isokoko, Pen-Cinema, Onipanu, and Alade Police Stations, among others. Odumosu also listed the six policemen who were killed to include: ASP Yard Edward, attached to Denton Police Station; Inspector Olayinka Erinfolami of defunct Anti Kidnapping Unit (AKU); Inspector Adegbenro Aderibigbe, attached to Meiran Division; Sergeant Abejide Abiodun of the Department of Operations (DOPs), State Headquarters; and two others attached to Orile Division. He disclosed that 15 motorcycles and tricycles were torched and 65 vandalised at various locations within the state. The public assets that were destroyed, according to him, include the High Court Complex Igbosere, Lagos State DNA and Forensic Centre, Broad Street; Ejigbo LCDA Secretariat; BRT Terminal Iddo (where 67 buses were burnt); City Hall, Lagos Island; COVID-19 Warehouse at Monkey Village; BRT Terminals at Ojodu and Ikotun; Ajeromi Ifelodun LG Secretariat; NPA Head Office, Marina; and FRSC/VIO Office at Ojodu, where only the vehicles parked outside the main buildings within their compounds were burnt. The Commissioner said, “Thirteen formations were vandalised amongst which were Ojo and Ojodu Stations. Police posts burnt included Cele, llogbo-Elerin, Shibiri, Defunct Anti-Cultism office, Gbagada, Defunct SARS Office Onilekere, Makoko, Daleko, Ashamu, Makinyo, Amuwo-Odofin, Defunct Anti-Kidnapping Office, Surulere; and old SARS Office, Ajegunle. “During the unrest, the police posts that were vandalised by the hoodlums included PPL, Mowo, Morogbo, Ikota and Mawa police posts. “Some private facilities as well as other investments that were partly torched and vandalised/looted included the Oba of Lagos’ Palace; Television Continental Station (TVC) at Ikosi-Ketu, Access Bank, GTBank and Ebeano Supermarket at Victoria Island, The Nation Newspaper office at Fatai Atere Street, Mushin; Shoprite Malls at Ajah, LTV 8, Alausa, Ikeja; Surulere, Samsung Outlet at Apple Roundabout, Festac, Shoprite at Festac, Samsung Office Oyingbo, etc. However, some of the looted items from these outlets/offices have been recovered.” Among the hoodlums arrested, according to Odumosu, was one Olamilekan Ibrahim, 19. He was alleged to have been among those who broke into a commercial bank and carted away cash and other valuables in Lekki. The police said he was arrested with N250, 000 alleged to be his share of the loot from the banks, as well as a locally-made pistol. Odumosu said two other suspects, identified as Ebere Reuben, 29, and Samuel Oyediran, 16, were also arrested by RRS operatives for their involvement in burning of the BRT terminal at Berger and TVC Station in Lagos State, respectively. He said they were allegedly caught with the left-over of some quantities of petroleum products with which they set the places ablaze. The Police boss said, “Thorough investigation into the cases has commenced…Also, I commend the community leaders and stakeholders for their support in this regard, especially on recovery of the looted arms and ammunition and valuables. They have been so helpful. Last but not the least the command appreciates other sister/security agencies for their support in the struggle for restoration of peace and harmony to the state.” 