BY REBECCA AJANI GOVERNOR Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State has imposed a 24-hour curfew on residents in the state, in view of the hijack of the #EndSARS protests by hoodlums. The government’s decision was conveyed in a statement on Tuesday, signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Biodun Oyebanji. The governor said hoodlums had capitalised on the #EndSARS protest to rape, assault, rob and extort innocent citizens across the state. “These are in addition to the wanton destruction of properties, particularly private properties,” he noted. He said Government could not therefore afford to watch a deliberate enthronement of anarchy by some bad elements who had hijacked the protest for some clandestine reason. The statement said, “The Government of Ekiti State has observed with growing concern how the ENDSARS protest, which started as a peaceful protest against police brutality by youths in Ekiti State, has been hijacked by some hoodlums. “The hoodlums have capitalised on the ENDSARS protest to rape, assault, rob and extort innocent citizens across the State. These are in addition to the wanton destruction of properties, particularly private properties.” It said Government was concerned that if this state of affairs was allowed to continue unabated, it would lead to a breakdown of law and order thereby threatening the wellbeing of the people of Ekiti State. The state government added, “For the purpose of clarity, Government continues to show understanding and responsiveness to the demands of the legitimate protesters. “On 16th October 2020, Dr. John Kayode Fayemi, Governor, Ekiti State met with the protesters in person. While identifying with the legitimacy of their protests, he assured them that the State Government will immediately put measures in place to respond to all their demands. “Government has since then constituted a Human Rights Investigation Panel to review all cases of abuse by Officers of the disbanded SARS. In addition, Government has enabled a Victims Compensation Fund to facilitate speedy remedial measures for victims of such abuse.” Furthermore, it said, several officials of Government had engaged the protesters at multiple fora and platforms, including the social media in order to ensure that concerns of protesters were properly identified and responded to in a prompt and efficient manner with necessary feedback. Fayemi noted, “Government had also at various times drawn the attention of the protesters to the troubling hijack of the protests by individuals whose only interest is to inflict violence on the people of the state. “In the past 48 hours, there have been incidents of gang-rape, robberies, physical assaults on innocent people, looting and burning of a police station. These acts of brigandage are not in consonance with the legitimate aspirations of the protesters. It cannot be logical to seek to remedy impunity with impunity. “Government therefore cannot afford to watch a deliberate enthronement of anarchy by some bad elements who have hijacked the protest for some clandestine reasons.” Consequently, the statement said “the Governor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi, hereby imposes a 24-hour curfew on all parts of the State, starting from 10.00 pm tonight, Tuesday, October, 20, 2020.” It said, “Only essential workers and service providers with valid means of identifications are allowed to move around during the period of the curfew. “Any person found on the street that does not belong to this category, would be promptly arrested and prosecuted according to the laws of Ekiti State. “We seek the understanding of the good people of Ekiti State as we continue to take deliberate steps towards ensuring that peace and normalcy return to our state.” 