BY LINUS CHIBUIKE
THE Nigerian Bar Association, on Wednesday, condemned the shooting and killing of #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki tollgate, in Lagos, by unidentified men of the Nigerian Military. While describing the action as reckless and lawless, the NBA vowed to “immediately commence legal proceedings at all relevant fora (both locally and internationally) against the Nigerian Military, and other relevant authorities, on behalf of the families of the victims, for abuse of power, disregard of rules of engagement and the infringement of the fundamental rights (including the right to life) of the affected citizens.” It said in a statement, signed by its President, Olumide Akpata, that the shootings at Lekki were “a carefully calculated and premeditated attack”. The NBA noted that such events should never be seen or considered as normal in any democracy. It called on the Military High Command to immediately identify and name the officers involved in what it described as gross professional misconduct “for immediate prosecution and dismissal in line with extant laws.” The statement said, “The attention of the Nigerian Bar Association (“NBA”) has been drawn to the dastardly shooting and killing of #ENDSARS protesters at the Lekki Toll Plaza in Lagos State by some unidentified men of the Nigerian Military on Tuesday, 20th October 2020. “From news reports on the incident, many lives were lost in the attack while several others were injured during the melee that ensued. “The NBA strongly condemns this act of recklessness and lawlessness by the security apparatus of the Government in what, based on reports available to us, appears to have been a carefully calculated and premeditated attack. “The NBA states that even if the protesters at the Lekki Toll Plaza were in breach of the curfew imposed by the Lagos State Government, such a misdemeanor or breach did not warrant the use of live ammunition by the Nigerian military to confront otherwise peaceful, unarmed and defenseless protesters. “To be clear, the events of today are events that we should never see or consider as normal in any democracy. “Against the backdrop of this ugly development, the NBA wishes to state as follows: “The military high command is hereby requested to immediately identify and name the officers involved in this gross professional misconduct for immediate prosecution and dismissal in line with extant laws. “The NBA shall immediately commence legal proceedings at all relevant fora (both locally and internationally) against the Nigerian Military, and other relevant authorities, on behalf of the families of the victims, for abuse of power, disregard of rules of engagement and the infringement of the fundamental rights (including the right to life) of the affected citizens. “Given the degenerating nature of the crisis, an emergency meeting of the National Executive Committee (the highest decision-making body of the NBA) will be convened within the next 48 hours to review the state of the Nation and take other appropriate steps to decisively deal with the situation and prevent the nation from further going adrift. “The NBA believes that the current situation in the country calls for dynamic leadership and, as critical stakeholders in the Nigerian project, invites the President of Nigeria and others in authority to show uncommon leadership in saving the situation, instead of deploying troops against defenseless citizens whom they swore an oath to protect.” 