 BANYO TEMITAYO PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari said, on Thursday, that the Federal Government’s prompt disbandment of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, in line with the demands of protesters, nationwide, had been misconstrued as a sign of weakness. He said the promptness with which his administration acted was also twisted by some for their selfish unpatriotic interests. Buhari spoke during a nationwide broadcast on the ongoing #EndSARS protests. He said it became necessary for him to address Nigerians, having heard from many concerned citizens and having concluded a meeting with all the Security Chiefs. He warned those who had hijacked and misdirected the initial, genuine and well – intended protest of some of Nigerian youths in parts of the country, against the excesses of some members of the now disbanded SARS. The President said, “On Monday 12th October, I acknowledged the genuine concerns and agitations of members of the public regarding the excessive use of force by some members of SARS. “The choice to demonstrate peacefully is a fundamental right of citizens as enshrined in Section 40 of our Constitution and other enactments; but this right to protest also imposes on the demonstrators the responsibility to respect the rights of other citizens, and the necessity to operate within the law. “As a democratic government, we listened to, and carefully evaluated the five-point demands of the protesters. And, having accepted them, we immediately scrapped SARS, and put measures in place to address the other demands of our youth. “On approving the termination of SARS, I already made it clear that it was in line with our commitment to the implementation of extensive Police reforms. “Sadly, the promptness with which we have acted seemed to have been misconstrued as a sign of weakness and twisted by some for their selfish unpatriotic interests. “The result of this is clear to all observers: human lives have been lost; acts of sexual violence have been reported; two major correctional facilities were attacked and convicts freed; public and private properties completely destroyed or vandalised; the sanctity of the Palace of a Peace Maker, the Oba of Lagos has been violated. So-called protesters have invaded an International Airport and in the process disrupted the travel plans of fellow Nigerians and our visitors. “All these executed in the name of the ENDSARS protests. I am indeed deeply pained that innocent lives have been lost. These tragedies are uncalled for and unnecessary. Certainly, there is no way whatsoever to connect these bad acts to legitimate expression of grievance of the youth of our country.” Details later… 