BY BANYO TEMITAYO GOVERNOR Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, on Friday, signed into law, a bill backing the upgrading of the College of Education Ikere- Ekiti to a University, as part of activities marking the second anniversary of his administration. The institution will, under the new law, be known as the University of Education, Science and Technology, Ikere Ekiti. Fayemi signed the bill into law at the Executive Council Chamber, Ado-Ekiti, in the presence of the Deputy Governor, Bisi Egbeyemi; Wife of Governor, Bisi Fayemi; Speaker of the House of Assembly, Funminiyi Afuye; Deputy Speaker, Hakeem Jamiu; members of the State House of Assembly, and members of the executive councils, among others. The College of Education Ikere- Ekiti (formerly Ondo State College of Education) was established by an Edict on December 5, 1977. The Governor explained that the signing into law of the legislation that backed the upgrading of the College to University was in realisation of his administration’s commitment to promoting knowledge economy in the state. He also assured that his administration would continue to demonstrate commitment to the promotion of knowledge in the state. Commending the Speaker and members of the State House of Assembly for passing the bill that enhanced the fulfilment of his administration’s drive to improve the lives of the people, Fayemi noted that the stress of passing the bill into law could be tedious and demanding. According to him, the bill, which was passed independently by members of the House of Assembly as part of their constitutional responsibilities, was done in the best interest of the people of the state. Fayemi, who noted that the three arms of Government were designed to complement one another for peace and good governance, promised that his administration would continue to promote harmonious working relationship with the legislators towards maintaining their institutional autonomy. He said, “Mr. Speaker has already enumerated several bills that have been passed into law by the State Assembly but the one that assent is being given to today is the one that underscores the importance we attach to knowledge economy. “I have no doubt that the new legislation I am about to sign will enhance our restoration agenda and make favourable impact in the lives of our people. The three arms of government as we all know are to complement one another for good governance, peace and harmony. “I am glad that our lawmakers are living up to their constitutional responsibilities of legislation, representation, appropriation and oversight which they must continue to carry out with the larger interest of Ekiti people at the back of their mind. “The effectiveness and efficiency of our lawmakers is also worthy of commendation. What they have done since they assumed office could only be possible where there is peace and harmony among the rank and file of the Assembly. This has further underscored the dedication and commitment to serving Ekiti people. “This legislation we have signed into law is not just to the glory of Ikere Ekiti but the glory of Ekiti State in general and the benefit of humanity.” Earlier, the Speaker, Ekiti State House of Assembly, Funminiyi Afuye, disclosed that the bill was one of the 32 bills passed by the sixth Assembly and signed into law by the Governor. The Speaker explained that the passage of the bill was in response to the long agitation of the Ikere people and to promote and sustain the legacy of knowledge economy which is one of the cardinal programmes of the Fayemi-led administration. “We are presenting the University of Education, Science and Technology, Ikere Ekiti law for your assent. This is a salutary initiative of your administration,” he said. The provost, Prof. Olufemi Adeoluwa; and the Chairman, Governing Council of the College, Afolabi Ojuawo, said the event marked the realisation of the long expectation of the college. They expressed readiness of the college to start on a fresh note, assuring that both the human and infrastructural resources needed for the smooth running of the institution were on ground. 