THE Federal Government has extended the suspension of the new electricity tariff by one week. Prof. James Momoh, Chairman, Nigeria Electricity Regulatory Commission, said this when the ad hoc Technical Committee on Electricity Tariff submitted its interim report at a reconvened bilateral meeting between the Federal Government and Organised Labour on Monday in Abuja. The new tariff was earlier suspended for two weeks and ended at midnight on October 11, when the organised labour suspended the planned industrial action against the hike in electricity tariff on September 28. Recall that the the committee which was Chaired by Mr Festus Keyamo, Minister of State for Labour, is to examine the justifications for the new policy in view of the need for the validation of the basis for the new cost reflective tariff. Momoh while speaking, said the one week extension was to enable the committee to review and work out modalities for the implementation of the agreement reached on the electricity tariff structure. Sen. Chris Ngige, Minister of Labour and Employment, while reading a resolution reached between the Federal Government, Organised Labour and the Ad Hoc Technical Committee on Electricity Tariff, said that adoption of the work plan for effecting the resolutions had been reached. Ngige said the resolutions adopted would be implemented by all stakeholders within the week by Sunday, October 18. According to him, the following amendments to the resolutions were adopted to include phase one immediate reliefs. “Using of the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) VAT proceeds to provide relief in electricity tariff. This is to leverage on the VAT from the NESI, the increases experienced by customers due to the transition to the Service Based Tariff will be reduced. “That is Band A – 10 per cent reduction, Band B – 10.5 per cent reduction and Band C – 31 per cent reduction,” he said. It was adopted that for the distribution of the first one million meters, the Ministry of Power was to liaise with the Central Bank of Nigeria(CBN), Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) and Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA). He added that they were to start work by October 12, to accelerate the roll out of meters with a target of December 2020. The minister, therefore, said that the meeting agreed that it would work towards bridging the metering gap. “The Federal Government committed to provide six million meters and NERC is expected to compel the DISCOs to meet the metering needs of the customers,” he said. Ngige also said, on the resolution adopted for the Local procurement for Meters for National Mass Metering Programme (NMMP), the organised Labour would work with government to improve and ramp up local production capacity. He also said that the resolution adpoted on salary protection for electricity workers was that NERC should ensure that the personnel costs of electricity workers should be placed on first-line charge on the Primary Collection Account. He added that the process would commence from Monday, October 12. Ngige also noted that one of the resolutions adopted for PhaseTwo of the extensive review of key sector reforms was that the ad hoc committee would work from October 12 to December 12, to ensure that all outstanding issues were resolved and implemented. He also said the resolution adopted on gas pricing was that the Group Managing Director was co-opted into the Technical Committee to assist with the purpose. He added that on resource capacity, the Managing Director, NEMSA, was also co-opted into the Technical Committee to work with NERC on the metering assignments. – NAN 