 THE Vice-Chancellor, Lagos State University, Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun, has disclosed that, out of over 21,000 applicants who sought admission into the university during the last exercise, the institution could only admit 7,968. He stated this on Wednesday during the 2020/2021 matriculation ceremony of the institution. He said the matriculating students should consider themselves lucky to be in the university, noting specifically that, during the 2020 admission screening, the university recorded 21,626 applications but was able to admit only 7,968. The VC, however, told them to adhere to the rules and regulations of the institution, saying, “it is one thing to be in the institution, it is another thing to earn their stay on campus.” “Matriculating under any circumstances is great achievement, so many overcame a lot to be here, navigated challenging classes and challenges outside the classroom,” he noted. Fagbohun added that in the last four years and 10 months, the university had undergone metamorphic changes that had guaranteed conducive learning, preparedness to take on global challenges and a stable academic calendar. “Therefore, what is primarily required of you during your stay on campus is good morals and academic excellence,” he noted. “Times Higher Education ranked LASU as the second best tertiary institution in Nigeria and globally within the global 501-601 bracket, so the onus is on you to raise the bar of achievements,” he stated. Also speaking at the ceremony, the Dean, Students’ Affairs, Dr. Tajudeen Olumoko, congratulated the newly admitted students, saying that the university had sustained its age-long objective of making quality and liberal education accessible to all, regardless of social or economic class. He said the main objective of the exercise was to acquaint the students with the fundamental principles, norms and culture of the institution. He said, “As newly admitted students, you are expected to abide by all rules and regulations of this institution and participate in all activities of the university. You must be fully committed to your studies and justify your selection out of the thousands who wanted to come and study in this noble institution but never got a chance. “At LASU, we have zero tolerance for any form of misconduct and we do not hesitate to sanction any students who gets involved in any vice.” 