BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI GOVERNOR David Umahi of Ebonyi State has imposed a 24-hour curfew on the state. The curfew took effect from 7pm, on Wednesday, following alleged attacks and destruction of government facilities by hoodlums and suspected cultists. In a statewide broadcast, the State Governor noted that hoodlums and cultists took over the peaceful protest by #EndSARS protesters in the state. He noted that the hoodlums made an attempt to set police stations within the state capital ablaze, adding that an attempt was also made to set prisoners free from the Abakaliki prison, which he said was resisted by security agents. Governor Umahi further said that government vehicles and other facilities were under heavy attack by the hoodlums, adding that many security agents sustained various degrees of injuries as the hoodlums and cultists shot at them. He regretted that those that perpetrated the act were not Ebonyi people but agents brought into the state by yet to be identified individuals, noting that the hoodlums did not wish the state well. He commended security agents for their patience and wisdom in tackling the matter and appealed to Ebonyi people to resist any plot by strangers to come into the state and destroy the modest achievement recorded by his administration. Governor Umahi stated that the #EndSARS protesters had their legitimate right to protest and tendered an apology to the Nigerian youths over government failures. He urged security agents to block all entry and exist borders of the state to ensure that miscreants did not find their way into the state from 7pm on Wednesday. He said, “Let me first pay my condolence to all those who lost their lives in the cause of this agitation tagged #EndSARS. We leaders did not see anything wrong in the demands of our young children, however, it is very unfortunate that these wonderful young children have been infiltrated by hoodlums who now started to burn properties of innocent citizens. “I therefore appeal to my colleagues to do everything possible to protect the lives of these peaceful protesters as they have been doing. In my state, Ebonyi, I have noticed with sadness, how peaceful protest in Ebonyi State has been hijacked by hoodlums and cultists who were shifted from outside the state into our very peaceful state. “On Monday, I had addressed the peaceful protesters and went ahead and met all their demands in line with the directives of the Federal Government.These hoodlums and cultists have burnt many police stations, moving to prison to set prisoners free and there are attacking security agencies including shooting at them.” The governor added, “These hoodlums and cultists are not Ebonyians but they came from outside because they do not wish us well. Security agencies in our state have sustained injuries from the attacks of these hoodlums and the provocation. “These security agencies have exercised great patience and wisdom in handling the issue at stake and I urge them to continue doing just that. Government vehicles and infrastructure of government have come under severe destruction and this is regrettable. “I will continue to say that the peaceful protesters have their legitimate demands and I offer my apologies for many areas we leaders have failed our young children. We believe that the success of the peaceful #EndSARS protest will make we leaders make amends where necessary.” He appealed to the Ebonyi people not to allow outsiders to destroy the modest improvements of the state, saying the achievements might not have gone down well with some people outside the state “who do not wish us well and who imported these hoodlums to our state.” Umahi added, “I therefore call on security agencies to block all our borders from 7:00 pm today, the 21st October, 2020 and to protect all lives and property. Furthermore, I, the Governor of the state, by the powers conferred on me by the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I hereby impose a 24 hours curfew from 7:00 pm today, the 21st of October, 2020. “I appeal to all these hoodlums and cultist to please use the time available today to leave the state very peacefully and I appeal to all the security agencies to continue to maintain calm even in the face of severe provocation and attack. Whether these people came from outside is a reality but they remain our children and so, I appeal to them, again and again to please, leave the state as all the demands of #EndSARS peaceful protesters in the state, I have met them.” 