 LINUS CHIBUIKE THE Presidential Panel on the Reform of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad has recommended the dismissal of 37 ex-SARS operatives and prosecution of 24 others for acts of professional misconduct. These recommendations were contained in the Report of the Presidential Panel set up by the Federal Government in 2018 to reform the disbanded unit. The panel also directed the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to unravel the identity of 22 other officers involved in the violation of the human rights of innocent citizens. The National Human Rights Commission team, led by its Executive Secretary, Tony Ojukwu, formally presented the 2018 Report of the Presidential Panel at the Police Service Commission on Friday. The team also solicited the PSC’s support in the implementation of the aspects of the Report covered by its constitutional mandate. A statement by the PSC spokesman, Ikechukwu Ani, quoted Ojukwu as saying that the PSC chairman had all it takes to deal appropriately with the report of the panel. The statement said, “Ojukwu said at the end of the public hearing, the panel recommended 37 police officers for dismissal and 24 were recommended for prosecution. “The panel also directed the Inspector-General of Police to unravel the identity of 22 officers involved in the violation of the human rights of innocent citizens.” The Presidential Panel had investigated allegations of human rights violations and abuse of office against SARS operatives and recommended reform or restructuring of the outfit. Receiving the delegation, the PSC chairman said the Commission would collaborate and support the Human Rights Commission in the promotion of good governance. He, however, said that for effective reform of the scrapped SARS, there must be a deliberate effort to select capable, professional and credible people to replace the disbanded outfit. The selected officers, according to him, must be properly trained and exposed to regular training. Smith said there must be close supervision of the newly selected officers so that the nation would not experience the rot associated with the disbanded unit. The ES of the Human Rights Commission told Smith that PSC was well positioned to deal appropriately with the report of the Presidential Panel. He noted that the Panel called for and received 113 complaints on alleged human rights violations from across the country, including 22 memoranda on how to reform and restructure SARS and the Nigeria Police in general. 