THE National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas and the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria, on Monday, threatened to commence industrial action over the planned sacking of 2,000 workers by Chevron Nigeria Limited. Both unions have directed their members in Chevron Nigeria limited to withdraw their services in the company. The Unions said the move became imperative following the plan by Chevron Nigeria Limited to sack over 2,000 of its Nigerian employees. The President of NUPENG, Williams Akporeha, and his counterpart at PENGASSAN, Festus Osifo, confirmed this in a statement. The statement said that the Chevron management had continued to engage more expatriates for operations while using the COVID-19 pandemic as an excuse to ease out Nigerian workers from the company. The unions said that the management had notified about 2,000 of its employees last Thursday that their services were no longer required and that those still interested in working with the company could apply afresh. The statement said, “We are against this imperialist agenda. We are going to check this manipulation. “We have directed our members in Chevron to withdraw their services and call on the Federal Government to call Chevron management to order otherwise we can no longer guarantee industrial peace in the oil and gas sector.” The Point had reported that Chevron Nigeria Limited had announced its plans to relieve 25 per cent of its members of staff in accordance with business exigencies. Chevron in a statement had said, “This will increase efficiency and effectiveness, retain value, reduce cost, and generate more revenue for the Federal Government of Nigeria. “The new organisational structures will, unfortunately, require approximately 25 per cent reduction in the work force across the various levels of the organisation. “We have prospects for our company in Nigeria; however, we must make the necessary adjustments in light of the prevailing business climate; and we need everyone’s support to get through these tough times stronger, more efficient and more profitable, in order to sustain the business.” 