BY REBECCA AJANI … to revisit creation of LCDAs GOVERNOR Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State has revealed that his administration is taking steps to ensure justice for victims of police brutality in the state through the setting up a Panel of Enquiry and Restitution for Victims of SARS and Related Abuses. He also unfolded plans by his administration to revisit the creation of the Local Council Development Areas to develop the grassroots and bring governance closer to the people, promising to forward a bill to that effect for immediate consideration. According to a statement on Saturday, Fayemi spoke on Friday while presenting the State of the State Address on the floor of the State House of Assembly, Ado-Ekiti, before the state legislators and other distinguished personalities, as part of activities marking his two years in office. The State of the State Address was attended by the Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi; the First Lady, Bisi Fayemi; House of Representatives member, Femi Bamisile; members of the State Executive Council and traditional rulers, led by the Chairman of the State Council of Obas/Alawe of Ilawe Ekiti, Oba Adebanji Alabi, among others. Governor Fayemi, who had earlier in the morning, addressed a large crowd of EndSARS protesters at the Fajuyi area of Ado-Ekiti, said his administration was setting up a panel to look into cases of human rights abuses and brutality by the disbanded squad. He said, “In line with the recommendation of the National Economic Council, I have today constituted a Panel of Enquiry and Restitution for Victims of SARS Related Abuses in the State. “The panel will look at all verifiable cases of SARS brutality and fatality and ensure offending SARS officers are identified and prosecuted appropriately while victims or their families are duly compensated. “Membership of the panel will include a retired judge of the State High Court as Chairperson, and representation from Civil Society Organisations, including youth groups.” “The Honourable Attorney-General will publish additional details, including giving information on how our citizens can access the panel,” Fayemi added. Addressing the agitation for a revisit of the Local Council Development Areas that were dissolved by the immediate past administration, Governor Fayemi said his administration, having reviewed the development, had decided to revisit the issue and would be forwarding a Bill to the Assembly for consideration. He said, “After extensive consultations, my administration has decided to revisit the creation of Local Government Development Areas. “I have therefore directed the Honourable Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice to re-present a Bill for the establishment of Local Government Development Areas in Ekiti State for the immediate consideration of the State Executive Council and subsequently for Legislative scrutiny.” “May I use this opportunity to appeal to this House to give the Bill the urgent consideration that it deserves,” the Governor said, with an applause from the audience. Presenting the scorecard of his administration in the last two years backed with relevant statistics, the Governor said appreciable progress had been made in the execution of life changing policies and projects for the benefit of Ekiti people, despite the prevailing economic challenges. The statement said, “The Governor noted that the five pillars of governance which include Agriculture and Rural Development, Governance, Infrastructure and Industrial Development, Knowledge Economy and Social Investments were being diligently pursued to improve the standard of living of the people. “He noted that the first year in office was used to lay a solid foundation for the legacy projects which are now in various stages of completion, adding however, that the economic challenges brought about by COVID-19 pandemic led to the review of the 2020 Budget.” The Governor was also quoted as saying, “Despite the challenges brought on by COVID-19 pandemic, we have remained committed to completing all unfinished projects by previous administrations and following through with those we initiated. “We have done this to demonstrate that regardless of our partisan leanings, Ekiti State remains our common heritage, and we must do all we can to lay a foundation for sustainable development. “Today, I address you with restrained joy but a strong conviction that despite the challenges we have faced in the past year, we are making visible progress and steady strides towards our goals for Ekiti.” 